1: Father, thank you for the privilege of being with your people. Thank you for what you are doing in them, through them, with them, for them, by them, and through them. And will you allow the words of my mouth and meditations of my heart to be acceptable to you in Jesus name. Amen. >> Amen. If you were to go to a restaurant, as I'm certain some of you may do after service today for your Sunday meal, they will hand you a menu. That menu will give a written description of what that restaurant has to offer. You will read it and sometimes the menu can look so good you will salivate just from the reading of it. Then there'll be a waiter or waitress. They will come alongside and give you further delineation, further explanation of what the restaurant has to offer. So you will get a written description and you will get a verbal articulation. In fact, the waiter or waitress may even go into a Q&A, a question and answer session and personal testimony as to what they like that happens to be on the menu. But after you have read it and perhaps salivated over it per after you have heard it spoken about verbally and visually, you will then not get up and leave because that's really not why you came. You didn't come to read about it. You didn't just come to hear about it. You came for the experience. You came to be nurtured in it for the benefit of uh the nutritional value the meal would offer you. Anything short of that makes it a wasted trip because you didn't accomplish why you came there. Here today, you will have a reading from a menu of God's word. For the next few moments, I'll serve as your waiter. I will try to give explanation of what the menu has to offer. But if when this service is over, you've only read a menu and heard a waiter, you're going to leave here nutritionally mal malfunctioning because you didn't get what you came for. Because what you should come for is the experience of a meal, not merely the reading of a menu or the articulation of a waiter. You see, God ... (line truncated to 2000 chars)