Some  of  us  have  been  held  hostage  to stuff  all  of  our  lives.  I'll  never  get better.  I'll  never  overcome  this.  And the  worst  statement  of  all,  this  is  just who  I  am.  No,  that's  not  who  you  are.  If you've  become  a  Christian,  you  have  died in  Christ  and  you  have  been  set  free simply  because  God  said  so.  It's  just  we got  to  set  the  mind  so  that  you  begin  to experience  the  freedom  that  God  declares is  yours. Today  I  want  to  talk  to  you  and  me  and us about  how  an  eternal  perspective  can change  all  of  that and  how  with  this  shift  in  perspective in  how  you  look  at  life, you  can  become  a  lion  that  roars,  a  bird that  flies,  a  fish  that  swims,  a  dog that  barks. a  cat  that  meows.  In  other  words,  you can  live  out what  the  creation  was  designed  to produce. When  you  and  I  accepted  Jesus  Christ, the  Bible  says  we  became  new  creatures in  Christ,  another  kind  of  creation. Yet  at  the  very  same  time, we  often  are  not  living  up  to  the newness. and  unfortunately find  ourselves  many  times  living opposite  to  the  uniqueness. Paul  in  writing  the  Colossian  church addresses  this  reality. So  stay  with  me  today  and  let's  see  how an  eternal  perspective  can  be transforming. He  says  in  chapter  3  verse  one  of Colossians,  "Therefore,  if  you  have  been raised  up  with  Christ,  keep  seeking  the things  above  where  Christ  is  seated  at the  right  hand  of  God. Set  your  mind  on  things  above,  not  on things  that  are  on  earth.  For  you  have died  and  your  life  is  hidden  with  Christ in  God.  When  Christ  who  is  our  life  is revealed,  then  you  also  will  be  revealed with  him in  glory. Many  are  suffering  from  what  I  might call  a  disease  of  spiritual  Alzheimer's. Alzheimer's  is  where  the  mind  or  the brain  can  no  longer  formulate  accurately thoughts,  words,  and  ideas  in  order  for the  life  to  move  as  it  ought  to  move. This  dysfunction and  death  of  brain  cells produces  inactivity  within  the  life.  The body  can't  do  what  the  body  was  meant  to do  because  something  has  gone  wrong  in the  head. Paul  makes  it  clear  that  your  victory  in life  is  tied  to  your  mind. It  is  in  the  shift  of  your  mind  that will  determine  the  redirection  of  your life  and  my  life. Whatever  is  in  your  life  that  ought  not be  there  that  is  wrong  is  not  starting with  what  you  do.  It's  starting  with  how you  thought  about  it. >> And  that's  why  there's  so  much  in scripture  about  the  redirection  of the  mind and  the  need  for  the  mind  to  be reprogrammed. The  Bible  declares  that  when  you  and  I accepted  Christ,  we  got  the  mind  of Christ.  He  says  that  when  you  became  a Christian,  you  became  identified  with Jesus  Christ.  He  says  that  you  are raised  up  with  him. You're  seated  with  him.  You've  died  with him  and  your  life  is  hidden  in  him. that  Jesus  Christ,  his  resurrection  is to  produce  the  new  point  of  reference for  your  life  and  my  life.  And  if  we lose  sight  of  that  new  point  of reference,  we  may  function  in  terms  of our  old  life,  not  in  terms  of  our  new life. All  of  us  knows  what  it  is  to  jumpst start  or  hotshot  a  car. That  means  that  there  is  a  dead  battery, which  means  the  whole  car  can  go nowhere. So,  we  ask  somebody  who  has  a  living battery  to  pull  up  next  to  our  dead battery  and  take  out  jumper  cables. They  take  the  positive  and  hook  it  on  to the  dead  positive,  the  living  negative, and  hook  it  on  to  the  dead  negative.  And then  there  is  a  transference  of  life. The  transference  of  life  from  the  living battery  via  the  cable  enters  into  the death  of  the  dead  battery  and  the  dead battery  piggybacks  on  the  living battery.  So  that  the  dead  battery becomes  alive  because  it  is  borrowing the  life  of  another.  And  so  that  which could  not  move  in  the  right  direction  is now  able  to  move  because  of  a  hookup. God  is  saying  when  you  came  to  Christ, you  got  the  hookup. >> But  the  hookup  without  turning  on  the ignition  will  still  leave  you  dead, stuck,  and  going  nowhere.  And  so  he first  of  all  wants  you  to  understand that  the  difference  you  want  in  your life  and  my  life  and  our  lives  is  going to  start  by  understanding  with  your  mind the  hookup  that  took  place  as  a  result of  your  conversion.  So  that  in  the  mind of  God,  you  and  Christ  have  been  linked together.  And  it  is  an  understanding  and activating  the  new  link  of  your salvation  in  your  mind  that  will  take your  life  being  able  to  turn  over  the ignition  so  that  the  body  can  go  where the  body  is  designed  to  go. >> So  first  of  all  you  need  to  understand mentally  that  the  hookup  has  occurred. Okay. Then  what's  the  process  of  getting  this ignition  turned  on  in  my  head  so  that  it moves  through  the  rest  of  me  and  how  I function  in  my  Christian  experience. He  says  in  the  second  verse  the  key phrase set your  mind.  Uh  you  see  that set your  mind  on  things  above. Many  of  you  got  up  because  you  yesterday set  your  clock. You  set  your  clock  on  the  time  to  wake up  in  order  to  prepare  to  come  to church.  To  set  the  clock  is  to intentionally identify  the  time  that  you  want  to  wake up.  In  other  words,  clocks  are  not  set casually.  They  are  set  on  purpose because  you  set  it  for  6  or  6:15  or 6:30.  It  it  is  an  onpurpose  thing. Therefore,  in  order  for  the transformation  to  occur,  he  says  it  must be  an  intentional  planned  setting. You  are  to  set  the  mind. And  the  mind  is  to  be  set  on  a  specific thing  on  things  above. So  you  are  to  intentionally think  heavenly  above.  You  are  to  think with  a  heavenly  perspective. But  he  does  not  mean  you  are disassociated  with  earth.  The  whole point  is  to  think  while  on  earth  with heaven's  viewpoint  in  mind  and  to  do  so on  purpose. Until  you  learn  to  do  it  naturally, you  have  to  set  it  purposefully. Some  people  don't  have  to  set  their clock  cuz  they  are  their  clock.  In  other words,  they  are  self  set so  that  they  will  wake  up  in  the  morning when  they're  supposed  to  wake  up  without a  buzzer  going  off  because  they've gotten  so  used  to  it  that  it's automatically  built  into  their  system. I  would  suggest if  you  get  a  new  job  and  you've  not  been used  to  waking  up  on  your  own  that  you set  your  clock  and  don't  depend  on yourself  cuz  yourself  hasn't  been  doing it  long  enough  to  do  it  on  its  own.  When you  learn  to  on  purpose  set  your  mind  on heaven  while  living  on  earth  until  your system  learns  to  do  it  automatically, then  the  transformation  will  begin  to occur  because  your  mind  will automatically  know  to  engage  heaven  in order  to  have  a  proper  movement  in history. In  Super  Bowl  43, with  just  a  couple  of  minutes  left  in the  game,  the  Pittsburgh  Steelers  were marching  down  the  field. Ben  Rothllessberger,  the  quarterback, threw  the  football  to  San  Antonio  Holmes and  he  dropped  it.  They  came  back  to  the huddle. There's  less  than  one  minute  left  in  the game. He's  now  got  to  score  if  they're  going to  win  the  Super  Bowl. He  calls  San  Antonio  Holm's  number to  try  to  get  the  winning  score. Antonio  Holm  comes  to  the  end  of  the edge of  the  goal  line in  the  end  zone and  Rothlessberger  throws  in  the  ball. He  reaches  up  high  and  catches  the  ball. The  referee  says  touchdown. The  reason  why  it  was  a  touchdown  is because  two  things  happened. Number  one,  he  reached  high  and  caught it.  But  number  two,  he  kept  his  feet firmly  planted  on  the  ground. If  he  would  have  caught  it,  but  his  feet were  not  on  the  ground  in  the  end  zone, it  would  have  been  an  incomplete  pass. If  his  feet  were  down  and  in  the  end zone,  but  he  didn't  catch  it,  it  would have  been  an  incomplete  pass.  Because  in order  to  score  a  touchdown,  he  had  to reach  high  and  still  touch  low.  His  feet had  to  be  firmly  planted  on  the  ground, but  his  hands  had  to  reach  up  high.  In order  for  you  to  score  the  life  that  God wants  you  to  live,  and  in  order  for  me to  score  the  life  wants  me  to  live,  we got  to  reach  high  to  heaven  while keeping  our  feet  firmly  planted  on earth. Both  happen  simultaneously. God  doesn't  want  you  to  be  so  heavenly minded  you're  no  earthly  good. >> But  he  doesn't  want  you  to  be  so  earthly minded  you're  no  heavenly  good.  He  wants you  to  reach  high  and  touch  low  so  that you  live  out  on  earth  heaven's perspective  in  time. >> But  to  do  that,  he  says,  you've  got  to set  your  mind.  You've  got  to  say,  today, I  have  set  my  mind to  live  my  life  and  make  my  decisions from  heaven's  point  of  view.  And  unless that  has  been  naturally  built  into  your system,  you've  got  to  intentionally  tell yourself  that  on  a  daily  basis,  you  must set  your  mind.  Why?  Because  I  now  no longer  belong  to  myself.  I  belong  to Jesus  Christ  and  my  life  is  hidden  in his.  Let  me  explain.  I  don't  drink black  coffee. To  me,  black  coffee  is  nasty. Okay,  I  don't  like  black  coffee.  So whenever  I  make  coffee  or  coffee  is  made for  me,  there  is  an  understanding there  will  be  cream  in  it. >> There  will  be  cream  in  my  coffee  and  the sweeter  the  cream,  the  better. >> I  I  love  them  flavored  creams. And  so  cream  is  placed  in  my  coffee.  And when  cream  is  placed  in  my  coffee,  a transformation  occurs.  A  change  happens. >> I  watch  black  become  brown >> because  something  has  been  introduced  to it  that  didn't  stop  it  from  being coffee,  but  it  sure  change  how  it tastes. >> But  I  am  not  satisfied  with  an introduction  of  cream. >> I  want  an  inculcation  of  cream. So,  I  take  my  spoon  and  I  stir  the  cream around  in  my  coffee  cuz  I  ain't  trying to  get  it  just  sitting  on  top.  I  want  it all  up  in  there.  I  want  it  from  the tutti  to  the  fruity.  I  want  it  from  the bottom  to  the  top.  I  want  that  cream  to make  itself  known  all  the  way  through  my coffee  because  I  want  it  to  be  good  to the  last  drop. I  want  all  the  coffee  to  taste  like  the first  bit  tastes  because  I  have integrated  it,  intermingled  it.  I  have absorbed  it  in  the  total  blackness  of the  coffee. See,  some  Christians  are  satisfied  to throw  a  little  Jesus  on  top. They  want  to  put  a  little  Jesus  on  top. And  Jesus  is  saying,  "No,  I  want  you  to stir  me  in.  And  I  want  to  be  part  of  the tutti  to  the  fruity,  from  the  bottom  to the  top,  so  that  from  the  beginning  of your  day  to  the  end  of  your  day,  you  are consumed  with  me  because  your  life  is hidden  in  me.  I  need  to  be  the  sum  total of  the  definition  of  your  existence  if you  want  to  experience  the transformation  that  I'm  offering." And  so  a  little  Jesus  on  top, >> a  little  prayer  a  day  to  keep  the  devil away,  a  little  Lord  have  mercy  without staring  that  thing  in  when  I  get  up  and when  I  go  to  work  and  when  I  come  home and  when  I  do  this  and  when  I  do  that. Unless  you  stare  me  in  to  the  totality of  the  coffee  of  your  existence. Then  the  transformation  of  the  mind  that is  the  key  to  the  change  in  the  life will  not  be  experienced.  Every quarterback has  a in  his  ear  a  system  designed  for  him  to hear  signals  being  given  to  him  from  the man  upstairs  in  the  booth.  cuz  the  man upstairs  in  the  booth  is  seeing  the whole  film  and  seeing  the  whole  field and  seeing  all  the  arrangements.  And  so he'll  send  a  signal  down  into  the receiver  of  the  quarterback's  ear  cuz he's  got  a  bigger  picture  than  the quarterback  has  in  order  to  steer  him  in the  way  he  ought  to  go. So  the  receiver  is  designed  to  pick  up somebody  from  who's  sitting  high  and who's  talking  low  in  order  for  him  to navigate  all  the  things  that  are  trying to  defeat  him  on  the  field  of  play.  It says  in  the  text,  Jesus  is  seated  up there,  but  we're  living  down  here,  but there's  a  receiver  that  he  wants  to  send to  your  mind.  To  your  mind.  In  other words,  God  will  share  his  thoughts  with you.  He  will  take  his  thoughts,  make them  your  thoughts,  so  that  you  think what  he  thought,  and  when  you  think  what he  thought,  you  can  now  do  what  you think.  Cuz  the  only  reason  you  think  it is  because  you  thought  it.  And  the  only reason  you  thought  it  is  cuz  he  sent  it. And  the  only  reason  he  sent  it  is  cuz  he could  see  it. And  so  he  begins  to  shift  and  shape  the mind >> so  that  you  in  fact  begin  to  think differently  which  is  always  the  basis  of how  you  operate.  You  only  do  what  you  do because  you  think  what  you  think. Amen. >> And  so he  says  that  this  happens  in  the  mind, but  your  life  must  be  viewed  as  hidden with  Christ.  In  other  words,  totally absorbed  by  him. >> Not  just  a  a  point  of  reference  you visit  every  now  and  then,  but  total ownership  by  him. Because  he  is  seated  on  the  right  hand of  God.  He's  going  to  give  information from  that  location. So  if  you  want  heaven's  information,  you must  be  tied  to  heaven's  location.  And when  you're  tied  to  heaven's  location, that  feeds  information  into  the  mind, which  is  the  spiritual  aspect  of  the brain that  infuses  and  informs  the  soul. So  that  raises  a  question  now. Then  what  must  I  do?  How  do  I  get  this thing  working  so  that  I  begin  to  change what  I  do?  because  I  change  what  I  think because  I  now  know  who  I  am. He  tells  you  in  verse  5, therefore,  in  light  of  the  principles that  have  just  been  taught, consider the  members  of  your  earthly  body  as dead. Wow.  Consider the  members of  your  earthly  bodies  as  dead. Look  at  it  differently. Look  at  the  physical,  your  earthly  body being  dead.  When  it  comes  to those  areas  that  are  outside  of  the  will of  God,  he  names  a  bunch  of  them. immorality,  impurity,  passions,  evil desires,  greed,  which  is  idolatry in  which  you  used  to  walk.  That's  how you  used  to  live.  He  includes  a  bunch  of other  things  in  verse  eight.  Wrath, malice,  slander,  abusive  speech.  So, he's  talking  about  consider  your  body  as dead  when  it  comes  to  those  things outside  of  the  will  of  God.  So  God says,"I  want  you  to  consider.  I  want  you to  think.  I  want  you  to  operate  in  light of  I  want  you  to  think  like  you're already  in  heaven." He  says,  "I  want  you  to  think  this  way." Because  now  you're  thinking  from heaven's  point  of  view,  not  earth's point  of  view.  Because  that's  what  God says  happened  when  you  came  to  Christ. You  might  you  might  want  to  take  the thing  that's  killing  your  life  and  write its  obituary. So  once  he  gets  your  mind  to  do  this, once  you  say,  "Okay,  I'm  going  to operate  each  day  and  I'm  going  to  bring those  things  that  are  outside  of  the will  of  God,  and  I'm  going  to  declare  it to  be  dead,  even  though  it's  still trying  to  jump  up  and  and  do  its  own thing  in  me.  I'm  going  to  I'm  going  to declare  it  to  be  dead." Some  of  us  have  been  held  hostage  to stuff  cuz  it's  been  there  all  of  our lives. My  mama  had  it.  My  daddy  had  it.  My daddy  was  an  abuser.  My  mama  was  a drunk.  My  mama  cussed  and  fussed.  My daddy  cust  and  fuss.  I'm  just  doing  what I  always  have  seen.  And  I've  been  doing that.  And  you  get  ready  to  transfer  it to  your  children  cuz  it's  just  been there  so  long.  So  that's  called  a plantation  mentality. And  Satan  wants  to  keep  you  with  a plantation  mentality  that  I'll  never  get better.  I'll  never  overcome  this.  I'll never  get  victory  over  this.  I'll  always be  defeated  by  this.  And  and  the  worst statement  of  all,  this  is  just  who  I  am. >> No,  that's  not  who  you  are.  If  you've become  a  Christian,  you  have  died  in Christ and  you  have  been  set  free  even  if  you don't  feel  free  simply  because  God  said so.  It's  just  we  got  to  set  the  mind. >> He  says  so  that  you  begin  to  experience over  time  the  freedom  that  God  declares is  yours. So  watch  this. He  says, he  says  in  verse  8, "Put  aside all  these  things,  wrath,  malice, slander,  abusive  speech." Cuz  what  that  means  is  that  the  world  is crouching  in  on  you.  The  world  is imposing  itself  on  you.  The  world  is doing  its  thing  against  you.  He  says, "Put  aside  the  abusive  speech." So  he  tells  you  to  put  aside,  but  then he  gives  you  the  other  half  of  that. He  says, verse  10,  "Put  on  the  new  self." Put  on  the  new  self. Put  off.  Put  on. This  is  the  reference  to  changing clothes. So  follow  this  now.  This  will  be  the key.  Take  off.  Put  on. When  you  take  a  shower  and  I  take  a shower, we  don't  put  on  the  same  dirty  clothes we  took  off.  I  hope. Because  we  all  know if  you  put  on  the  same  dirty  clothes  you put  off,  you've  canled  out  the  shower. The  shower  is  designed  to  make  you zestfully  clean. The  shower  is  designed  to  purify  the dirt. But  if  you  put  on  the  same  clothes  that you  had  on  after  you  took  the  shower, the  shower,  while  real,  is  of  little benefit.  The  worst  thing  you  can  do  is sit  next  to  somebody with  dirty  clothes  on  who  has  the audacity  to  tell  you,  "But  I  took  a shower." What  good  is  a  shower without  a  change  of  attire? >> Jesus  Christ  says,  "I  am  your  shower." >> I  want  you  after  considering  yourself  to be  dead.  You  got  to  start  there.  I  want you  now  to  take  off  the  old  clothes. That  is  the  old  way  of  thinking,  the  old way  of  operating,  the  old  pattern  of life.  Because  with  the  change  of  mind, I've  given  you  the  power  to  take  off  the clothes.  But  it's  not  enough  to  walk around  nude  just  cuz  you  took  a  shower. The  whole  idea  is  you  must  dress  up  with something  else  to  replace  what  you  took off.  So  it's  not  just  don't  do  this, don't  do  that,  don't  do  this,  don't  do that.  That's  taking  it  off.  And  you  know you  need  to  take  it  off,  but  you  got  to cover  up  with  something  else.  So  what  he says  is  when  you  consider  yourself  to  be dead  and  you  pick  up  this  new  way  of thinking,  new  way  of  operating,  new life,  he  says  something  is  going  to happen.  Verse  10,  you  will  be  renewed  in a  true  knowledge. >> Okay,  watch  this.  He  will  take  care  of changing  your  mind  when  you  change  your clothes. When  you  decide  after  considering fantasizing,  so  you  didn't  got  up,  you fantasizing,  you  saying,  "Lord,  I'm dead.  I'm  dead  to  this.  I'm  dead  to that.  I'm  dead  to  that.  Now,  it's  not been  my  pattern.  I've  been  struggling with  this  all  week,  but  I  am  dead  to this.  I  am  dead  to  that.  I'm  dead  to  the other."  He  says,  "Now,  I  will  begin  in the  mind  that  you  have  started  to  do  the habit  that  you  have  started  to  renew  the mind  so  that  what  was  traumatic  now becomes  more  and  more  natural.  you're going  to  find  it  more  and  more  natural. Now,  let  me  ask  a  question.  Let  me  cuz maybe  I'm  maybe  I'm  confused.  Maybe  I don't  understand.  So,  I  want  you  to  help a  brother  out  here.  So,  help  me  out. When  you  took  your  shower  this  morning, will  that  be  good  for  you  till  next Sunday?  I  don't  want  to  assume cuz  maybe  your  soap  is  different  than  my soap.  Maybe  maybe  your  soap  will  keep you  smelling  good  from  this  Sunday  to next  Sunday  and  you're  going  to  smell good  all  week  long  cuz  you  just  had  a good  shower  today.  I  don't  think  so. You're  going  to  shower  every  single  day cuz  you  want  to  be  clean  every  single day.  But  a  lot  of  folk  think  cuz  they took  a  bath  at  church  on  Sunday  that's going  to  keep  them  clean  till  next Sunday.  It  don't  work  like  that.  Every day  you  get  up,  you  got  to  set  the clock,  to  wake  up  to  have  the  funeral  in order  to  declare  yourself  to  be  dead  to that  which  is  outside  of  the  will  of God.  And  then  after  that  declaration, you  take  off  the  old.  Okay,  just  to  pick one  computer.  I'm  not  going  to  look  at you  today  cuz  I've  considered  you  to  be dead  to  me  with  regard  to  that  which  is outside  of  the  will  of  God.  mouth. You're  not  going  to  cuss  today  cuz cussing  you're  dead  too.  And  you  declare it  to  be  so.  You  shower  yourself confessing  that  inviting  heaven's  view into  your  life.  You  declare  what  you  are going  to  do.  I'm  going  to  speak righteousness.  I'm  going  to  speak  peace. I'm  going  to  speak  the  will  of  God.  You put  on  the  new  clothes.  And  then  God begins  to  kick  in  and  shift  the  mind  so that  over  time  you  are  controlling  it. It  is  no  longer  controlling  you  because you  are  adopting  a  heavenly  perspective.