You don't have dreams without test. You understand? And everything you're going through is God preparing you for what you asked for. So, when you get tested it's actually God preparing you for what you asked for. You got to have hardships, setbacks, missteps. See, the only way to learn how to get up you got to fall. Learn only way to learn how to get over you got to be under. Only way to learn how to win you got to lose. Only way to appreciate the laughter you got to be crying. You would not appreciate the sunshine if you do if it didn't rain. You would not love the morning sunlight if it never got dark. The it is designed that way in life, man. So, you need everything that happens to you to happen in the exact order. You don't like it. I didn't like being homeless. I didn't like living in a car. I didn't like getting divorced. I didn't like losing everything twice. I didn't like none of that. But it was preparing me for a life he had for me. So, having lost everything twice I have a much greater appreciation for what God is giving me now. Because I've done without it. So, see you appreciate. You learn. You got to have it that way. You don't learn nothing when you're winning. You learn through failure. Failure is the part of process people don't like, but that's the win. Michael Jordan took over 900 game-winning shots. Michael Jordan ain't made but 147 of them shots. You ain't heard nothing about them misses. They only write about the wins, man. But he learned how to get them 146 by missing 750 times. You see what I'm saying? A baseball player make millions of dollars if he get to the plate and he's successful three out of 10 times. Three out of 10. He just got to get a hit three out of 10 times. That's that's crazy. And you can make millions of dollars cuz they don't care about them seven times when you don't get them hits. What they pay you for is the makes. That you can you can miss. You can miss seven out of 10, but if you get three hits every 10 times you go to the plate you finna make hundreds of millions of dollars. Ain't that crazy? And that's how life is, man. It's just a few wins. I had a lot of shows. The majority shows I've had ain't on TV no more. But Family Feud on there. The Judge show on there. I only need three hits. You know what you should do? Every time you get a chance to experience first class you should do it. Because it plants a seed. It's like the next time you buy airplane ticket just ask for an upgrade. Pay a little extra money. Fly first class. What it does is it conditions your mind. Once you get in first class and you see how wide the seats are and you find you find out why they shut that curtain, see? Cuz they shut that curtain cuz they can't let you see what going on up there. They're passing out hot nuts. Everybody get a washcloth. They got a menu. You get to decide what you want. All the drinks is free. Once you sit in first class one time the next time you get on the plane it's very difficult to walk past them seats. And then your mind starts thinking of ways to get back to first class. And guess what? That's what you start attracting to your life. And you start behaving and producing stuff to get you back into first class. That's how you move up. You just take like like buy you one really expensive outfit. Just see how it feel. That is high for a reason. Don't think they down there just putting prices on Buy a really expensive pair of shoes, ladies. Buy a really expensive purse one time. Just go down there. Buy the real Louis Vuitton that ain't ever on sale. Louis Vuitton don't even have sales. Just get you one. When you carry it it changes your life. It will then cause your mind to subconsciously produce thoughts to get another one. And next thing you know you attract the thing you need to produce the outcome that you want. Life is all about the law of attraction. That's how you do it. Yeah. Just try it. What really changed my life, man, was I started I got in Amway when I was about 24. I got in Amway. And that changed my life, man, because the first time ever they introduced me to self-help books. And I read two books that changed my life. It was uh The Power of Positive Thinking by Norman Vincent Peale and The Magic of Thinking Big by David Schwartz. I read them books and it changed my life. But it also made me remember what my mother had taught me cuz she was a Sunday school teacher cuz all self-help books are Bible-based. There's nothing Everything comes from the Bible. All of All them self-help books that's Proverbs. That's all it is. It's the book of wisdom and understanding. If you if you could read that it it change your life, too. But sometimes you need you know, regular books where you can relate to it differently. But it's all comes from the Bible. It's like a great book is The Secret. But if you read The Secret it's all Bible versed. I mean it's it's based on the Bible. You can't think of nothing new how to tell a person succeed without the Bible. You can't. It's It's doesn't work that way, you know? So All right, family. It's my soft place. Couple of books changed my life, man. But The Magic of Thinking Big was huge for me. It just taught me one simple principle. It don't cost no more energy to think big than it does small. You can say Volkswagen and you can say Rolls-Royce with the same amount of effort. You ain't got to grunt to say Rolls-Royce. So, if the Bible is true which it says a man is as he thinketh if you think poor thoughts you got to be poor. The moment you change that thought into wealth or riches you start the process to becoming wealthy or rich. It It's It's It's not a magic trick. It It's I mean it's really how it works. I You know, people complicate it. You got to do this and you got to do that. But Bible's pretty plain. Ain't got no loopholes in it. Really don't. It's just real simple. It say what it say. All you got to do is believe it's talking to you. >> >> That's what it is. Most people don't think that God is talking to them. That I come to give you life and give you life more abundantly. You don't think he talking to you? He'll give you life more abundantly. He do. He really will. You ain't got to be rich to have an abundant life. Sometimes you just need to be healthy, happy. You know, you could be really happy, man, making $70,000 a year. You really really can. You don't need a few million. I did, but you can you didn't need a few. It helped me a little bit. But to be honest it didn't make me happy. Really didn't. Until you Well need God to be happy. So, I ain't going I ain't no preacher, so we got ministers in the room, so I'm just telling y'all from a hood perspective what I did to get here. You can go to church and hear it or take it from a dude that come out the bottom and got nothing. Ain't going to pass no offering tray. I don't really care. If you don't believe me you ain't got to. Took me a long time to get here, but God had me on the route he wanted me on. I didn't always agree with the route. But think about when you ask God for something. My mama used to say it all the time. You can't tell God how to bless you. See, you you can't tell him what you want and then tell him how to do it. Cuz it ain't going to ever be the way you want it to. Because if if where you at today if God had showed you what you would have to go through to get to where you are today you would turn back. You would go oh no no no no no. I don't want that part. I don't want to do that. I don't want that part. You would have and you would have missed who you are today. Because in order to get to who you are you had to go through every single thing you went through. You wouldn't even know what you know. You You know You hear old people say all the time you can't have a testimony without a test. You got to have some test partners. That's only way to have a testimony, so I used to be a a little upset, man. I didn't understand how God had me go that route, man. If you was going to make me famous and well off you could have just did it a lot quicker. But he said no. I'm going to make you homeless. I'm going to leave you in a car for three years. You're going to think about me often. I'm going to let you decide who you want to marry. I'm going to let you do that. Then I'm going to show you who you should marry. I'm going to let you make all these mistakes. I could not understand why I kept making all these mistakes. And then it became evidently clear after I became successful and several years after that. He needed all of that to happen to me. So, when I talk not out not in comedy, but in terms of motivation I know exactly what I'm talking about. I can tell a person how to get up cuz I've been down. I can tell you how to win cuz I lost. I can tell you how to get over cuz I've been under. I can I can tell you how to get to the to the front cuz I've been in the back. And so that was everything I needed, man. That's why when young people ask me questions or tell me stuff I got answers for it cuz, man, I've been through it. I I can't I can't I took the long way round. I took everything. I think that's the part the young people don't get. Like I talked to a lot of young acts today. I ain't doing that. That didn't pay enough. Did you hear what you said? You said it don't pay enough. But it pays. If you don't take the gig, you're going to get zero. Well, no, no, no, no, no. I want this and they only pay I said, "How much do you want?" I want it 5,000 for the night. How much they offer? 3,500. Yo, yo, dog. What what what else do you have that you can get somebody to give you 3,500 for the night? Go tell your jokes. No, man, they got to pay me what I want. But see, now you're not honing your craft and you're not making money. He said, "Would you have took it for 3,500?" I said, "Yeah." He said, "Would you take it for 3,500 now?" I said, "No." But why would you won't take it now, but you want me to take it? You don't have what I have. Well, what are we talking about? Just inch by inch any things a cinch. You got to take steps, man. It's hard to get young people to understand that. I want what you got now. You can't have what I got now. Yeah, I tell my kids all the time. Me and my kids we have this discussion. It take a long time to make a lot of money. If you think you can just go make a lot of money real fast, you're going to be constantly disappointed. It take a long time to make money. I've been in this business since I was 27 years old. I'm 64. Man, come on. Look at what your life Well, you you looking at now. You missed the three years I was living in a car. You you didn't see that. You missed when I lost everything I ever owned twice. You missed the two divorces. You missed me flunking out of school. You missed all that. You see this now. This ain't how it work now. Yeah, oh, it look easy. Yeah, I make it look easy. This hard. Come out here. Go come turn this corner. I'm going to invite any one of y'all to come up here. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Family Feud. Here's Ricky. >> >> And Ricky, walk your ass around this corner and just do what I do. It's really hard. Like, what do you do for a living? I work for a software startup. Software startup. See, if I went to her job, I'm a failure. What do I know about software? Now, what do you do, sir? Physician. A physician Oh, you did. >> >> He's a physician. You He went to school. He got to go to regular school, then he got to go to another school, then he got to get certified, go to another school. That's not me. I can want to be a doctor all I want, but it it ain't me. It's just easy, man. You got you got to fit in. You got to You got to do the gift God gave you. You're a physician, you're gifted. That's a God-given gift. Everybody can't go be a doctor. All right, family. My phone is >> It's not for you. cleared up. Somebody say, "Steve, you ought to be a minister." What? >> >> I love the Lord. I really do. God is my friend. He's the whole reason I'm here. God God wants every last one of you to be successful. Every one of you. We have to make decisions along the way to get to get it. But you can do it. You just got to quit tripping. Quit asking God for little bitty stuff. You ever thought about asking God for something big? >> >> Why you wasting his time? Oh God, help me. Help me. Help me make my rent. For what? Why don't you ask God for a mortgage? If he going to give you the money for a place to stay, if you keep asking for rent, he keeps giving you the rent. If you ask for a mortgage, he'll give you the mortgage. That's how it works, man. Rich people ain't that smart. I'm telling you. They just know some of the principles of success. You just got to learn them. That's all it is, man. You just got to just have to get there. It ain't that It's hard, but it's for everybody. The problem with success the average person doesn't think it's for them. That's the only thing that's stopping you from being really successful. You become rich you the day you decide to become rich, the process starts immediately. If you never decide to be rich, there is no process that gets started. Now, you don't have to be rich to be happy. That's not what I'm saying. I needed money. I I needed cuz I had You homeless living in the car three years. I had none of this post. I wanted to really be rich. I wanted to just see what it was like. And you don't have to be rich to be happy. Money Money is the root of all evil. You hear people say that stuff. Don't stop Stop listening to people that don't have money. Money is the root of all evil. Money can't buy you happiness. That's true. Money can't buy you happiness, but it'll park you right in front of happy's house. Let's understand something. We're all participating in this thing called life. All of us. Life has even flows. Mountain tops, it's got valleys. It's got It's got thunderstorms in it, earthquakes. This life. It don't you Stop expecting it to go smooth. Cuz it ain't going to go smooth. The road to success is always under construction. Ain't no This is This life ain't set up to be smooth. You You combat negativity and you combat uh discouraging discouragement with gratitude. It's the one way to combat discouragement is with gratitude. What messes you up is you focus on the thing that's not happening. And that causes you to get discouraged. So, whenever you get discouraged, you have to change your focus from what's not happening to what has happened. And it straightens you out immediately. Because what causes the the the downslide is if you get wrapped up into what ain't happening, it get ugly, man, and it just snowballs. But you have to focus on gratitude. People don't understand how serious gratitude is. You know, it's it's a serious principle of success. It's hard to be miserable and grateful at the same time. It's You know, I learned this at my mother's funeral, man, which was like the roughest that week of my life was like chaotic, man. I thought I was going to die. My mama passed. I was 40. I didn't do good, man. I thought I was crumbling. I really I really, man, I didn't I didn't know what that was, man. The most important person to me was gone. I was I was crushed. I thought I was going to die. And at the funeral, my mother was a Sunday school teacher for 40 years. And I'm devastated. My mother's in a casket. That's just not the picture I ever wanted to see, right? And uh I was struggling with her being up there. And uh the preacher stood up and he said, "I know y'all hurting." I got two brothers, two sisters. He said, "But I want y'all to look around at this church." My mama had been a Sunday school teacher for 40 years. Church was packed. It was packed. He said, "The overflow room is full." He said, "We've put up projector screens in the parking lot. We don't do that on Easter. We done set up projector screens in the parking lot cuz so many people done came to see your mother off." Said, "Cuz your mother meant something to everybody." My mama My church My mama's uh funeral was filled with the hood, the gangsters, the pimps, the hustlers, the dope boys, the police, the politicians, church people. He started talking about he said, "Look how full this church is. Look at the lives she touched. Look what she meant to so many people. We got people in this church we ain't seen in years." He said, "Look at this. And I want you to think of all the incredible things your mother has ever done." And then he started listing the things she had done around the church and what people had said about her. And we started smiling. And this is the first time I had smiled in a week. That week was ugly for me. And he said, "Now, listen to this. You see the smiles on your face?" He said, "Joy and depression cannot reside in the same space." So, when you get down and you start thinking about how dark it is, I want you to remember everything your mother taught you that was good. And that replaced all the negative thoughts I was having. Cuz joy and depression cannot reside in the same space. Well, now, you got to take that concept and apply it to your life. If joy and depression cannot reside in the same place, when you get depressed and you get discouraged, you got to replace it with joy. And what more can and more joyous than gratitude? What has God done for you? Didn't you wake up today? Ain't you still breathing? Don't you have some measure of health? Ain't you working? You may not have the car you want, but don't you have a car? Ain't you eating groceries today? You ain't homeless. Now, when you start tripping and you get depressed, you got to go You got to go into yourself and come up with some gratitude. Once you get grateful, you can't be discouraged and grateful at the same time. You cannot do it. >> >> That's how you combat every single time. It happened to me the other day. I woke up. I just wasn't on the right side of the bed. Went downstairs and started doing my meditation. I pulled out a list of everything I'm grateful for. By the time I got to the 13th thing I thank God for 75 things every morning. By the time I got to the 13th, I was fine. Cuz guess what? I'm alive. I'm breathing. I'm healthy. I'm going to go do a job. I tell jokes. They're going to pay me. Lord, they're going to pay me. My grandkids is healthy. My children is healthy. They ain't calling me asking me for nothing. They did at 10, but at 8 they didn't want nothing. >> >> I just started feeling That's That's how you do it. That's how you come back. And I'm telling you it works. It works. >>