Let us go before the throne of grace. Eternal Father, once more again the opportunity you're allowing all of us to come before thy throne this morning. Father God, we just want to say thank you for allowing us to see the gift of another new day. Lord God, we do realize this is the day you have made and truly we going to rejoice and be glad in it. Lord God, I ask this morning that you bless each and everyone this morning on the sound of my voice, even those watching on Facebook and YouTube. Lord God, I'm asking that you give traveling grace to those who's on the way here. But most of all, Father God, we come to be hearers and doers of your holy word. Right now, Father God, I ask you just bless the Mount Olive Primitive Baptist as a whole. Father God, I'm asking that you give traveling grace to our pastor Elder Marcus Wright Jr. and Lady J. Wright. I ask you right now, Father God, just be in the midst through all the service today. We come to praise you and recognize who's in charge and that's you, Jesus. This prayer I ask this morning in the name of the mighty, mighty working, powerful son of yours, Jesus. Amen. I will now turn it over to Mother Lee. Oh, let us recite the church school creed. Thank you. By the help of the almighty God, we as Primitive Baptist Church School members will strive with all of our might and energy to attend church school and church service regularly, to study the Bible faithfully, and to practice Christian principle among all mankind. I will now turn it over to Mother Lee. Good morning. Good morning. What is today? What's today? Sunday And This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us what? Rejoice. And be glad in it. Are we glad in this day? Amen. Good morning to everyone. Let us pray. Father God, we come to you once again this day. Thank you for who you are and what you've done in time past. Lord, what you're doing right now and those things you have waiting for us. Lord God, we look with great expectation knowing that you are God and you know all things. Father God, we thank you for this opportunity to come to learn more of you, to grow the knowledge of you deeper and love you more and more, Father God. We just thank you for your word. We thank you that it's made you made it possible through the life, death, burial, and thank God, resurrection of your son Jesus' name. We thank you for your power and presence of your Holy Spirit who dwells in us. Lord, we pray not just for a hearing of your word, but we pray for an understanding. And Lord God, we pray for mighty doing. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. What is today's title? Of lesson? Confident. What does it mean to be confident? To be sure, right? And when we're confident, how do we What's our body language? Straight up. Not in an arrogant way, right? But in a confident way. And who is our confidence in? Jesus. Amen. Amen. There's a question in the lesson. It says and actually, does everyone have the lesson, the printed text? Okay, everyone has a copy. Okay, and it's coming from 1 John chapter 3, verses 11 through 24. The question first of all is titled confident love and we're going to see the characteristics of that and we're going to know after reading this lesson if we are walking in confident love. Amen. What does it mean to love like Jesus? Unconditional. What else? Everyone. So that's really good. So that's under unconditional cuz that means it doesn't matter who you are, what what you've done, what you haven't done, where you come from. All of those things, right? But also how how how did Jesus love like? It was unconditional but also how? How do we love? Compassionate, right? With compassion. It's It's love is what? Active, right? Love does something, right? Love is an action word, right? Also he loves us what? He loved us what? Sacrificially, right? So that means love gives some things, right? Someone turn to first Corinthians 13th chapter and we know that that's what? The love what? The love chapter, right? So name some of those Someone if you could turn to it and name some of those characteristics. And we're going to leave here before we leave here, we're going to know if we're walking in love. 13. And go to um verse four, please. Excuse me, sis. Could you come to the mic? Thank you. First Corinthians 13:4 um states charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity um Yes, turn turn to Yeah. Turn the mic the other way and yes. Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot we on We want to see your face, too. We want to see your face. Facebook live. [laughter] I apologize. It's okay. First Corinthians 13:4 states charity suffereth long and kind is is kind. Charity envieth not, charity vaunteth not itself and is not puffed up. Mhm. You want me to go keep going? Yes, please. Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in in equity, iniquity, I'm sorry, but rejoiceth rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Mhm. Charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail, whether there be tongues, they shall cease, whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we not I'm sorry, for we know in part and we prophecy That's fine. in part. in part. Uh-huh. Thank you. She read through verse 9. Thank you. So, love does what? Love gives. Right? Love doesn't take. Love doesn't isn't arrogant. It doesn't puff itself up. It doesn't Love just happens. It it doesn't It's in subtle ways, right? In small ways. And while we're going through this lesson, think about the ways we love. Well, actually, let's talk about that. How do we love? Do we love like this? Do we Do we love like Jesus? Would you say Someone said we're supposed to and we don't always. So, we're going to learn a lot about love. First of all, we know it's a commandment. And what does that mean when it's a commandment? When Jesus commands, what does that mean? We are to do it. Not Oh, should I? Should not? No, no. We are to do it, right? And guess what? Jesus and his God in his mercy and grace, he gives us opportunities to get it right when we don't get it right, right? But we should strive to get it right, to do what does say the Lord. Amen. So, we're always aiming for change. I didn't bring my dartboard with me today, but we're always aiming for change. By the end of the lesson, we're going to do this. We're going to explore the many dimensions of loving others according to 1 John 3. And we're going to embrace God's commandments. What does it mean to embrace? What does it mean to embrace? Yeah. What We're holding something tight, right? Right. So, we're to hold tight to what? God's commandments to love with obedience, meaning doing what he says, and expectation. So, we're going to see that when we do what thus said the Lord, God is going to give us something good in return. He's going to bless us in return. And we're going to identify ways to grow in our love for others, because we can't love on our own. The flesh doesn't you know, the flesh is about self, right? The self The flesh is very what? Selfish. So, we have to pray to God to love others. And we're going to notice that God said love one another, right? Notice what he did not say. He didn't say like. He didn't say pick and choose, because when we when we like No, sis, that's right. Oh, one thing, too, if I call you sister or brother, and I don't call you mother or sis or mother or deacon, it's it's not a bad thing. It's out of love, okay? It's love. It's good to be brother and sister love. So, sometimes I'll call you deacon, or sometimes sister or mother, I may just say brother, cuz what? We're all brothers and sisters in Christ. So, please do not be offended if I if I do that, okay? Exactly, cuz those are titles, those are positions of responsibility. But God doesn't look at us like that. He looks at us as his children, right? And as we are what? Our brothers and sisters in Christ. So, notice, back to God didn't say like, because what you just said, sis, we what? We change. We're fickle people. Very fickle, right? Cuz one minute we can like something, and the next minute we don't. Right? Exactly. And then too, our appetites change, right? Some foods you just never liked as a kid and you won't dare eat it as an adult. Like broccoli, but I love broccoli. Right? So, God didn't be And then because like is is fickle, God doesn't want us to be fickle. He wants us to love He wants us to love in spite of. Right? The in spite of love. That has nothing to do with feelings, but it has to do with a choice. I'm going to love you because God says it. And we're going to find out in the process that when we love people, we like them, but guess what? It's our ways. It's our ways that Jesus doesn't like. He loves us cuz he made us, right? So, it's our ways that he doesn't like. So, the question is, have you And I'm not going to read the in focus story, but the question they ask is, have you ever seen a believer or group of believers or I put it here or been that believer that say they love others and not show it with their actions? We've We've seen, right? And we probably Not probably. At some point, we've been someone who wasn't always walking in love. Amen? But what was the result of that? Didn't end well, right? Not good, right? Because So, it shows us what? That love has to follow. says they love you, how do you expect to be treated? With love. Lovingly, right? And when you're not, you go, "Hmm, wait a minute. That's not love." We can't get it twisted, people. Because sometimes what we tend to do is like ignore it and go, "Oh, yeah, yeah, that's love." No. Even for ourselves, we got to know when we haven't been lovely and we have to know what to do about it. We got to fix it. We got to get it right. So, we look into the lesson and what was going on is in Jesus' time, many people believed that obeying the commandments could prove themselves worthy of God's blessings. However, okay? Jesus makes it clear that love is a natural result of God's blessings, not a prerequisite for receiving them. Okay? We do it because God what? First loved us. Amen. So, this letter was written to the members of the churches in Asia Minor serving as a reminder to God's children to love one another. Why do we need to be reminded? Cuz we easily forget. Right? So, that tells us we have to stay in God's word all of the time. We have to stay before the Lord all of the time. At the end of the day, do we or throughout the day, do we think about our actions throughout the day, do we reflect on what we did for the day or what we thought and do we give it to the Lord? You know, Lord, that I didn't I didn't I didn't do what you said, Lord, forgive me. Do we do that? Regularly, right? Because it's important. If not, we'll keep on going on and on and we're living unrepentant lives, right? So, the Apostle John aims to show the church how to put God's love into action. And this commit the commandment to love it illustrates how Christ's disciples, we are his disciples, we're his followers, how we should behave. Because God And notice this, it said, "This love has been poured into their hearts, into our hearts, by who? The Holy Spirit." It's not something we give ourself or gave ourself. That's why we have to We have to pray, "Lord, I want to I want to I want to love like you, Lord." Amen? Always important. So, remember that greater love is a result of relationship with Jesus. We can't love each other if we don't love Christ. If we don't have a relationship with him, because then how will we know how to love? And that's the problem. The And look at the definition of love with the world What's the definition of love for the world? It's usually what? Fleshly, right? Yeah, it's it's it's usually sensual or fleshly, right? You remember back in the day, and this will date our ages, but I'm grateful I'm grateful to God. I'm 66, amen. I'm grateful. But there was a song back in the '80s by the group called Foreigner. It says, "I want to know what love is." "I want you to show me." Now, in reading those lyrics to that song, it wasn't sexual. It was someone who was really longing for a relationship. And for those who don't know, it it was a a mass choir there, gospel choir, singing that song, too. But he kept saying, "I want to know what love is." But guess what? As believers, we know what love is. We know who love is, right? Jesus Christ, amen? And Jesus is saying, not only is he love, but he wants us to show his love. Who are we to show his love to? Everybody. Not to be picky-choosy. Not to decide, "Okay, I don't like you because [laughter] Okay? Isn't it amazing how some people cannot like people and they don't even know you? You don't even know them. Don't make it your problem though. Don't respond to how they're responding to us. Okay? So, we see at a glance is three outlines. Living out love. So, that's our life as believers. We're to what? Live out love. Meaning what? We have to show it. Because love is an action word. Love is as love does, right? So, the true test of discipleship if the true test is that we what? Love one another. And we don't have to judge someone. They judge themselves. They show it themselves, right? Because God is Christ is saying, "If you love me, you're going to keep my commandments." Not just that, you're going to show love what? To other people, right? So, we see that an attitude we're going to we're going to see uh an attitude of hatred. And who is that attitude of hatred with? Well, first of all, let me see. So, notice in it starts in verse 11 and it continues again on the topic of love. Notice in verse 12 it says, "We must not be like who?" What do we know about Cain? Oh, someone said he's he was jealous of who? Of his brother. And who was his brother? Abel. Notice he was jealous even because a person can be jealous and not kill, right? He was envious and and notice the difference what he did. He compared himself to his brother. Right? And it's sad because a lot of times we do that as human beings. We compare ourselves to others. But we should not as brothers and sisters in Christ. Amen? Cuz God made us all different. We didn't make ourselves. So look at this. And God didn't hate Cain. God did not accept his offering. Okay? So Cain took it to another level and did what? Kill his brother. So John is telling us here, we must not be like Cain who belonged to the evil one, meaning he was wicked, period, and killed his brother. And why did he kill him? Because Cain was evil. And his brother was doing what was righteous, meaning right with God according to God's commandment. So he says, "So don't We're not to be surprised when the world loves us." Isn't that right? Again, people will not like you for whatever reason. Sometimes we know what it is. Sometimes we know it's what? The color of our skin. Right? And a lot of times And that's hatred. That's jealousy. That's envy, too. And he goes on to say in 14, "If we love our brothers and sisters who are believers." And it's really when we love. Okay? It proves that we have passed from death to life, meaning we are responsive to Christ. Okay? But a person who has no love is still dead. They're dead in their sins. They're not responding to God's commands. So anyone who hates another brother or sister is really what? A murderer in their heart. But you may say, "Well, I didn't kill him with a weapon." But we did with our heart. And that's what Jesus looks at, right? Our heart. And we know that murderers don't have eternal life or God within them. And we're going to see in 16, we know that what? Real love is because Christ did what? He gave up his life. Who did he give it up for? For everyone, for all of mankind, right? And we ought to do the same for our brothers and sisters. And that giving up a life isn't so much um you know, some people have literally given up their life to save other people. We hear a lot of it in drown you know, in swimming accidents, right? We hear a lot of that. But what are the ways do we give up ourselves to others? What are some ways? How do we love? How do we show love? We give them our time, attention. What else? Money, that's right. When they're and we're going to talk about that, too, because we're going to see it. And I'm glad you brought that up because the next verse said if someone has enough money, and this scripture came up a couple weeks ago in the lesson. If someone has enough money to live well, and we see another brother or sister in need, but we don't show them any compassion. Hm, exactly, right? How can God's love be in us, right? Remember the lesson a couple weeks ago it says you you you see this person, you know you have an they have a need, and you can do something about it. But what what do some people do? Oh, I hope you I hope it I hope it goes well for you. And and and and leaves them. But guess what? Even when we don't have money to give someone, what can we do? Show them love by what? We can pray for them. We can help them in other ways, right? Maybe you don't have money to give, but you say, "You know what? I got plenty of food at home." And pack them up a basket or a box of food. Or if you don't have cash on them, uh over them they need a ride, or send some groceries by Instacart or whatever, right? What else can we do? We can pray for them. And we can say you know someone who can help them. We can become a what? Resource. Right? For them. We can say, "You know what? I can't I can't help you with this. However, I know someone and know So, we can direct them to the help, right?" Because there's always something to do. We can do something. But don't leave a person where they were, you know, don't leave them where they came in at, okay? And also, it's always good to pray. Let people know, "You know what? I'm praying for you." That means a lot. Sure, they don't say it. There's nothing there. So, those are becoming what? Just what? Words, right? But we want the words to have what? Action. Jesus said, "What is John 3:16? For God that he did what?" Go on. So, you see that God gave Jesus Jesus gave of himself to what? For everyone so that what? No one would perish. But it's on the But guess what? He gave of himself, but what? We have to accept it, right? The whosoever. And the whosoever is just that, whosoever. Anybody, everybody, because he doesn't want anyone to perish. Amen? And he goes on to say in 19, "Our actions will show that we belong to the truth, so that we'll be we will be confident. So, we're into the confident love. We will be confident when we stand before God. We'll be unashamed. We won't be guilty, because we know, 'Lord, I I your commandments, right?'" And guess what verse 20 says, even if we feel guilty, even when we know we haven't done right, okay? God is greater than our feelings. So, we don't get caught up on our feelings. Thank God, he's greater than our feelings, right? We can't stay stuck in our feelings. Because if we stay stuck in guilt, we can't enjoy the blessings of God. And we do what? We repent. Right? We turn away from that sin. We ask God's forgiveness, but we don't look to do it again, right? That's like apologizing to someone. Someone says, "Oh, I'm so sorry." But then their behavior doesn't change. They keep doing the same thing. So, that's for us humans. Imagine for God. We're saying, "Oh, Lord, please forgive me. I won't do that again." And we become what? Liars. And the truth isn't in us, right? And we have to be mindful when we say, "Oh, God knows my heart." Yeah, he does. And he knows that it's wicked. He knows the bad part. So, let's not get stuck in the feelings, but what? Repent. Acknowledge to God, because guess what? God already knows. He knows everything. So, acknowledge it to God. Lord, I messed up today. Please forgive me. Please help me, right? Help me. That's the thing. We got to know we need help. So, we don't have to stay stuck in our feelings. So, if we when we don't feel guilty or if we don't feel guilty, we can come to God with that confidence, with bold confidence. Because what? Knowing that he is a hearer and rewarder of those who seek after him, right? So, we don't But the devil wants us to think that, "Oh, you did wrong. You can't go to God. You're not forgiven." The devil is what? A liar. And And the truth ain't in him. It's not in him. And we have to know that. So, don't let those times when we are disobedient get in the way of going to God in repentance. But we should aim, Lord, I I pray, Lord, show me your love. And this starts in the morning, okay? When we get up. And actually, while we in the bed, still praying, because our thinking, right? Our thinking goes Our actions go with what we're thinking, right? So, as we in the 22, and we will receive from him when we when we do his commandments, when we obey him, we can see we can uh receive from him whatever we ask because we obey him and do the things that please him. But notice that the whatever we ask, it has to be what? According to his will. Amen. Very important. So, we don't ask for things that we know that's not in his will. No, Lord, if your will be done, okay? We pray that your will be done. And that's to accepting what his will is. And he goes on to say in 23, "And this is his commandment, we must believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and do what? Love one another, just as what?" So, we're going to what? To do what? Do what he says. And the doing what he says is what? Obedience. So, those who obey God's commandments, we remain in fellowship with him because Look Look at this. Look at my hands. When we sin, sin does what? Separate us, right? But when we are in obedience and repentance, we're joined back in fellowship, right? So, we don't want to be separated from God. Notice, he doesn't move. He doesn't change. Who changes? So, we are when we obey or those who obey remain in fellowship with him and he with us. And we know he lives in us because the spirit, the Holy Spirit, he give he gave us lives in us. Any questions? Any comments? Any questions? Any comments? Let me look at my notes and see And also in that love when God says Jesus says love your neighbor as yourself, you got to love yourself first before you can love somebody else. But a lot of people don't love themselves, that's why they mistreat people, right? So, it's very important, okay? So, um again, love is what love does. And liberating the lesson, I want to read that and that's on page uh 462 for those with the big books, the large books, but if not for the other books, under liberating lesson, tragedy dominates media attention media attention. You notice all you hear a lot of stuff you hear in the news is what? Tragedy, right? The more horrific the crime, the more news coverage it receives because they want it for what? Ratings, right? With this kind of media frenzy, wickedness has taken an exalted position in our society cuz that's what you tend to hear, right? On the news. Leaving many questioning the true value of love. You wonder, where is the love, right? It is no wonder so many feel love is trivial and irrelevant. Yet this lesson reminds us that we are commanded to love one another no matter what happens in the world. So, when somebody is not being nice to us, what we going to do? Love them anyway. And they say something to you sometimes we do have to do what? Take that Mhm. Deep [clears throat] breath. And sometimes we have to do what? Walk away. Right? What you say? What you say, sis? Count to 10? And sometimes we have to count to 100. But by that time it's best sometimes to what? Just just walk away. Just walk away. Because in in anger and response, we can do what? Say the wrong thing. And we can't take it back. Even if we say I'm sorry, it's still there. It's still a record, right? And remember, and my mom told us this years ago when we were kids, don't argue with a fool. Don't argue with a fool because then what? You become a fool for arguing with a fool, right? Cuz a lot of times we get in our feelings and we want to say, "Oh, no, they didn't. I know you didn't say that." Leave it to them looking like they look, but we love them anyway. And one of the best things to do right away, Lord, forgive them. I forgive them. And keep and keep it going. Keep walking. Because the more we dwell on it, what's going to happen? We going to be mad, and we going to want want what? Revenge. Or else we see them the next time and we going to hmm we going to look the other way. But again, thank God for Jesus. Okay? So, that's why we have to be in the in the in the awareness of how we're living. Lord, I want I strive to live like you. Show me how to love. Because sometimes we can be difficult. We can be difficult, right? Sometimes I don't like things about me, right? But I love me because God loves me. You see what I'm saying? So, the same thing with us. Sometimes I don't like my ways, but guess what? Thank God for transformation. Amen. So, consider what the church can do to promote love and unity in a world that seems to be torn by strife, hatred, and confusion. So, then that's the question. And then the the pastor, he challenged us with that with the lessons for the Bible study lessons. How can we love? How can the church love? How can the church show love and unity? How do we show love in church? Mhm? Pray. Yes, we pray. Someone said smile. That is so important. All those things are important because if we walk Imagine, you walk in the church, even if you're a member, but even if you're not, and you're greeted by someone who is angry, and they mean-looking, or they don't even speak, and you go You go I didn't sleep What do we tend to say? I didn't sleep with you last night. I didn't see you in my house. Right? So, if we come into church like that, that's not good. Right? So, again, that's smiling. That's so important. Because guess what? Because if I came in, or you came in, and you weren't feeling the best, but someone is smiling at you, what will you tend to do? Smile. Right? So, that's important. What else can we do? We can pray. The brother said we can pray. We can Someone said we can smile. What else? Hugs. Hugs are so important. I have gotten hugs from people here. Oh my goodness. And I just say, "Lord, thank you." And I tell that person, "I needed that." Words. Encouraging words. Thank you. Encourage you I have 4 minutes. So, we have 4 minutes to any discussions? Hugs are so important. A handshake, a going to an acknowledgement to to say, I see you, brother. I see you, sister. You matter to me. You matter, period. But, I'm acknowledging you. I don't have to know you to to pray for you. We don't have to know people. We can just pray for people. Amen? Anything else? If So, again, this is under application for activation. Love is a basic human desire and the evidence that we belong to the body of Christ. Love is more than what? A word. It is a repeated commandment from the Lord, love one another. Because every day we're challenged with loving one another. Isn't that right? Family, friends, strangers. Every day there's a challenge. And it's by it's driven by something someone has said or done. Again, it's so important to say, Lord, forgive them. Because if not, we will turn to hate them, right? It's so easy. Christian love for others is shown by what we do for others. So, the assignment for the week for those who will take the assignment, list things we can do to show love for other church members, family members, and people that we don't who we don't know or people who don't know the Lord, okay? So, think about one of those areas and and look to do something this week. Reach out to someone. Show someone some love. Amen? Thank you all for your participation. God bless everyone. Thank you. Thank you again, Deacon Isaac, for the opportunity. Let's give her another hand. Amen. Now, this is a a lesson that we all know something about, right? And she did such a wonderful job. So, if we kind of wrap that up, we said love love. How many different types of love are there? Anybody knows? Somebody said how many different types of love? I heard somebody say three. Are there? Or is there just one love? I heard four. I heard somebody say agape. Eros. Phileo. It's trying to come out, papa. Phileo. Okay, what's the fourth one? I heard somebody say four. Okay, there's only three types. So, we'll make sure the type that we're studying this morning. So, phileo, what type of love is that? Brotherly love. One that we have one for another. And the other one is what? One that we get a lot Agape. Let me say that for last. What the other one was? Well, yeah, the one that we Eros. Eros. That's that what? Those are phileo, the romantic one. You talking about passion. All the rest of it. So, we said love, and love is so important. And our lesson today we're talking about confident love. So, love is a If you look at songwriters, there's been so many songs written on love than any other topic. You know? Not just in the church. The secular world, too. But when we look at it I give warning. I see our pastor's here now, but and we look at it, and we're going to see if we can tie that and give you the answer for the what Sister Lee did. Now, Tina Turner, she had a song about love. She said what love what? Got to do with it. Got to do with it. So, Mother Leaf said what about love? It has what? Everything to do with it. So I say God so loved the world that he gave what? She that we brought that up. So when they say is what love got to do with it has everything to do with it. Then the O'Jays had one too what? Remember about this train. That love train. When you think about it what? People would all over the world what? Join hands. We got to love you. She talking about we used to say this. But then But wait about that papa. So what about Jesus? And she said what why why did Jesus command us to love? Because he is love. And it was penned somewhere. When it said oh what love Jesus had for me. And that's what it was all about. Love have everything to do with it. If Jesus hadn't died for us then what? We would still be lost in our sins. So we thank you as our youth get ready to come out. If anyone have a offering that you want to bring up you can bring it up now. Always think about what Jesus did when he paid that ultimate price for us. Oh what love Jesus had. What kind And the other thing he said what kind of love is it? [singing] And what would Jesus have done like that? [singing] Tell me what kind of man [singing] is this? [music] Who died for me? [singing] Set me free. [singing] [singing] [singing] Good morning, church. Um this morning I learned that love is just an action word, and if you really love someone, you should show it and not just say it. And to have agape love for everybody. [applause] Good morning, church. Today I learned that agape love means that um you should love someone in spite what they do to you. Good morning, church. Today in Sunday school I learned that sharing is caring and you should share with anyone even if they've done you wrong. Good morning, church. Today in Sunday school I learned that if you Good morning, church. Um I learned that um love is an action word and you um better show it. He said what I was going to say. I know you learned something. Come on, Promise. Stop playing. Got this, Promise. Stop it, Chase. Chase, Chase, let her do it. Let her do it, baby. She can do it. She You can do it. Good morning, church. Today I learned that sharing is caring and love is an action word. See, you I told you she I told you she can do it. Now you can do yours. She can do it. Hello, church. The book The book of 1 John, 3rd chapter, 11th through 24th verse. Church Creed was recited by the congregation. Combined classes was taught by Mother Lavinia Lee. Class 3 was taught by Mother Isaac with a total of three. Class 5 was taught by Sister Donaldson with a total of three students. Total attendance 36, Bibles 30, offering $147. Superintendent Cecile Ann Diaz, Assistant Superintendent Deacon Charles Wade, Secretary Sister Constance Jones, and our very own pastor, Elder Marcus Wright, Jr. May not May not you heard the church school secretary give us our financial report, what is your pleasure? Somebody can give me the motion. Okay, I heard 3 seconds. I heard Huh? Oh, okay. I'm saying I heard three. I didn't know who said it first. It has been properly moved and seconds the minutes coming from the church school secretary be received with any necessary corrections should there be any. Having time to consider you're ready to vote. All in favor. Are there any corrections? We have one, I know. We have one. Any more corrections? We'll allow you to give the correction that you found. Our offering today is for $157 instead of $147. Are there any more corrections? So, now the minutes stands approved as read. Before we close out and let our pastor come before us, I want the church to know that our very own Brother Michael Jones have received and a certificate title 20 years. This certificate is proudly presented to Michael Jones in grateful recognition of your contributions to Chadwell and dedication to bring joy through food. We are proud to celebrate your anniversary of 20 years. [applause] Now I will turn the mic over to our pastor, Elder Marcus Wright, Jr. Amen. Come on, give God some praise in the house on today. 20 years, my Lord, that's only a little bit older than me. Amen. Amen. And he's going down. He told me he was on his way to pick up some chicken. Amen. So he's still working right now. Amen. What a wonderful lesson on love today. What a wonderful lesson on love. And I'm sure we're no stranger to the word love here at Mount Olive. Amen. For we know all about showing love and Jesus' love, but certainly we know about oh what precious love that the Lord would give his only begotten son to die for us sinners just like you and me. And I'm so glad that he didn't just die, but he got up 3 days later and proclaimed that all power was in his hands. And then he didn't just get up. He proclaimed that he was coming back. That's where I get excited right there. He proclaimed that he was one day coming back. Like a thief in the night. Like in a twinkling of an eye. He's going to crack the sky. You're going to hear the trumpet sound. And I don't know about you, but I don't want to be left behind when he goes back up. But I want him to come on and pick me up and let me ride with him. The old song say, "Lord, if these two wings shall fail me, I want you to meet me in the middle of the air with another pair." Why? Because I've got a home over in glory. But in order to get there, I got to show love down here. Show the type of love that God has shown unto me. What kind of love did he show unto you, pastor? Well, I should have been gone a long time ago. They should have counted me out, threw in the towel, should have put me somewhere else. But thanks be unto God for the love of God that will come and step in the midst of your situation with you. And you'll be just like the three Hebrew boys, you won't come out smelling like the smoke that you've been in. Because God has stepped in the middle of the situation with you and showcased his love for you. I don't know about you. I think I've told you before, it's one thing to die for somebody, but it's a whole 'nother thing to sacrifice your only son. I love all of y'all in Mount Olive, but I don't think I can give up a child for any of y'all. Why? Because only Jesus can pay that ultimate price. All right, let let me pose this question to you, and I'm going to take my seat. How many of you would give up one of your children to die for somebody else who might not even like you? Amen. There it is, right there, lights. There it is. Not one of us. Why? Because we have a certain type of love for our children. Well, Jesus had the same love for us that he said, "There's got to be somebody to go and show the example." And not only show the example, but one day die and pay the ultimate price. And that's when Jesus said, "Lord, prepare me a body that I might go down and live this life called the example. And realizing that one day I'm going to have to die." But you know how we say it on first Sunday, he didn't just die, y'all. He He left an example even before he went to the cross. When he had the the breaking of the last bread with his disciples and when he washed his disciples' feet and then he got to that man by the name of Peter. Y'all know what Peter did, right? Peter said, "I'm not worthy enough for you to wash my feet." And Jesus said, "Well, if I don't wash your feet, you have no part with me." And Jesus Peter responded and said, "Well, if that be the case, Lord, don't just wash my feet. Wash my head, wash my hand, wash me all over." Because he understood that he had to have a communion with God. And the same thing has to happen even when we leave these four walls. You got to have communion with God. If you really love him and want to showcase his love, you got to commune with him daily. You ain't got to have the breaking of the bread and the wine. If you got your own supply at home, that's fine. Do your own breaking of the bread and the wine, but you got to commune with him. You got to talk with him. You got to tell him all about Grandma used to say, "Tell him all about your troubles. He'll hear your faintest cry and answer by and by." But in order to do that, he got to know who you are. And you got to know whose you are. And so we thank God for today on for the sacrifice of his love but for the unconditional love that he shows us. Cuz if I'm honest, we ain't always got it right. But thanks be unto God that he always comes and sees about us anyhow. Amen. So let's praise God for this lesson on today. [applause] Amen. I ain't have to go too far in detail cuz I watched from upstairs. Deacon Isaac did a good review and Mother Lee did a great lesson. Amen. And so I ain't have to go too much in review. I could just tell you about the love of God. Amen. Amen. We're standing. Let's get ready for our closing prayer on today. Amen. God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you for the lesson about your love and your unconditional love that you've shown toward us. Now, Lord, as we prepare to close out this church school and move into morning worship, we ask now that you would saturate the atmosphere, that you would move in this place from front to back, side to side, doing what only you can do best, which is have your way. Do what you need to do in the room on today. Lord, bless every youth that will do something on program. Bless our two candidates for mother, Lord, that you would move in them how you would need to move. And Lord, bless the service on today, that we will ultimately give your name the praise, the honor, and the glory. It's in the maximum wonderful strong name of Jesus that we do pray. And the church of the living God said, "Amen." Amen. Amen. God bless you.
