This program is paid for by people like
you, the partners of Joyce Meyer
Ministries. [music] Angels hearken to
the word of God. The more you speak the
word of God out of your mouth, the more
powerful you're going to become.
Well, I'm going to feel stupid walking
around talking to myself.
>> Oh, you talk to yourself anyway. You
might as well start saying something
that makes sense.
I'm Joyce [music] Meyer and I believe
that God can heal you everywhere you
hurt.
I'm so glad you've joined us because
today we [music] are going to be talking
about possibly the most important part
of a victorious walk with Christ. I'm
talking about winning the battlefield of
the [music] mind. If you suffer from
negative thoughts, take heart. Today
we're going to share some powerful keys
to help you take back your mind and live
in complete victory. Proverbs 23:7 says,
"For as a man thinks in his heart, so is
he." Another translation says it this
way, "As a man thinks in his heart, so
does he become." With this in mind, let
me ask you, what do [music] you want to
become? In this special broadcast, I
want to show you how you can become a
confident, powerful, [music] and
victorious person first in your mind,
and then you'll watch it influence every
area of your life. It's so important for
you to know that you don't have to
surrender to misery one [music] more
day. I want you to get ready to change
the way you think [music] and watch it
affect your life in amazing ways.
Today's teaching was born out of the
word of God and my own personal
experiences. [music]
I believe that they can impact your life
in the same way they have impacted
[music] mine.
Now, we know we don't want to think more
highly of ourselves than we ought to.
Phileiman 16 in the King James
says that the communication of your
faith may become effective
by the acknowledging of every good thing
in you in Christ Jesus. I never really
even saw that scripture
and realize what it meant until just a
few months ago. that when we acknowledge
the good things that are in us, then our
faith becomes
effectual.
Acknowledge every good thing in me.
Well,
is there any good thing in me?
Well, let me tell you just a few things
that the Bible says. Just a few.
The Bible says that you are precious.
It says that you're favored. God. You
have favor with God and God gives you
favor with man.
And you can see it in your life if you
believe for it and watch for it. You're
redeemed. Bought back from the devil
with the blood of Christ.
>> I am redeemed.
You're reconciled.
Your account with God is balanced. You
don't owe God anything.
>> So you don't have to get up every day
trying to pay God back because you did
something wrong yesterday.
He's already forgot it. And he'd like it
if you'd forget it, too.
>> Amen.
>> Oh no. We got to drag yesterday's mess
into today and ruin today, too.
You are loved unconditionally.
Unconditionally. That means God doesn't
love you more on your good days than he
does on your bad days. He loves you the
same all the time. Because God is not
it's not love is not something God does.
It's who he is.
>> If you ever want to know know love, you
have to know God.
And you're only going to get to know him
by having experience with him,
by taking steps of faith and trusting
God for things
instead of trying to make them happen
yourself. And as you see God move in
your life.
I have to use a sippy cup.
You want to know why? If I drink out of
a regular glass, like lipstick goes
and I look like a clown.
So, they made me sippy cups.
I got a smart team.
You are more than a conqueror.
More than a conqueror. Come on, get that
attitude. I am more than a conqueror.
I'm not afraid of trouble because I know
that I'm going to win in the end. And
whatever I need to go through to get to
the end, I can go through it because I
can do all things through Christ who is
my strength. You got to have a little
more of a
get a little Holy Ghost ghost.
>> Never think bad things about yourselves.
I'll share a story with you.
45 years ago, I know that because I know
how old my
youngest child is now.
Yes, I have a 45year-old and a 59y old
and a 57y old and a 56 year old and
a three-month-old.
Those are the great grandkids.
We have four generations now that we can
take pictures together like me and my
daughter, my granddaughter, and and my
great-granddaughter.
Pretty cool.
And uh it all started with just me and
Dave.
And now there's 39 of us in a worldwide
ministry.
I was sitting one morning
feeding my baby.
Dave had just left for work and we'd had
another argument.
And of course, he's always right and I'm
always wrong. That's the way it is with
men. You know that they're never wrong.
I thought I married Mr. Wright. I just
didn't know his first name was always
maybe one time in 58 years I've heard
him say I was wrong.
And so he left that morning and I was
like it's always me. Always me. I'm just
no good. I can't do anything right. I'm
talking out loud like this. I'm stupid.
I'm no good. And I'm going to tell you
the truth, and I'm not making this up. I
felt an evil presence coming across the
room at me.
I mean, I felt it.
And I knew it was a demonic spirit.
And I knew why. And I started saying, "I
am the righteousness of God in Christ. I
am the righteousness of God in Christ. I
am the righteousness of God in Christ. I
am the righteousness of God in Christ."
And the more I said it, the more that
spirit backed out of the room and left
me. Now, I usually don't tell stuff like
that cuz I don't want you thinking I'm
weird and goofy, but
there's no telling what you're letting
into your life by talking bad about
yourself.
One of the worst things that you can do
is talk bad about yourself.
>> Don't ever say, "I'm ugly. I'm fat. I'm
stupid. I'm no good. It's I'm always
wrong.
No, you are precious. You are the apple
of God's eye. You are redeemed. You are
sanctified. You are glorified. You are
justified. You are not guilty. You are
forgiven. You are capable of great
things. You can hear from God.
God has a great plan for your life.
There's so many
things
that God has gifted people for, but they
just
sit back and wait for something to
something to happen.
No, you got to work with God. Amen.
in him. You can do things
that will shock you, but you got to get
this relationship with yourself
straightened out.
And so
in this book, Battlefield of the Mind,
that you must have,
this is a mustave. We've sold almost 8
million of these. And if you don't have
one, you need to get one.
The Lord told Joshua.
Well, I better start up here. After
Joshua led the Israelites across the
Jordan River into the promised land,
there was something God needed to do
before they would be ready to conquer
and occupy their first city, which was
going to be Jericho.
You know the word possess to possess the
land means you have to dispossess the
current occupants.
So every piece of land they took had
enemies on it that they had to fight and
do war with before they could take it.
So it sounds good. Here's the promised
land. Go take it. But they had to do
some warfare each time to take that
land. And there's land that God wants
you to take. promises that he's made to
you, but you may have to get a little
feisty and stand your ground and not
just give in so easily to everything
that's a little bit hard.
One of the biggest excuses I hear people
say about not like maybe something like
not forgiving people that have hurt you,
but it's just so hard. It's just so
hard. Stop saying that.
Every time you say that, it just makes
it harder.
And the Bible tells us that nothing that
God has told us to do is too hard.
>> The list of ways we struggle in our mind
can seem intimidating. There's worry,
doubt, confusion, sadness, [music]
anger, and feelings of condemnation. All
of these are attacks on our mind.
[music] But the good news today is this.
In all these areas, God has made a way
for us to win the battle of the mind.
Talking about this subject is one of
Joyce's favorite things. [music]
And the reason is this. It's because she
discovered how to radically transform
the way she thought from years of
struggling with being overwhelmed,
discouraged, and fearful to a place
today of ongoing victory, peace, and
purpose. If you're ready to go with
Joyce on the same journey of changing
the way you think, we want to give you
the chance to take a practical step
towards renewing your mind. And you'll
discover how in Joyce Meyer's
best-selling book, Battlefield of the
Mind. In fact, here are some incredible
firsthand stories of how others just
like you and me are winning [music]
the battle of the mind.
>> I discovered Joyce Meyer in 2001. I was
saved the day before and I had never
heard of Joyce Meyer and the very next
day I was scrolling through the channels
[music] and here was this woman
explaining that the word of God had
relevance in [music] everyday life.
She's just authentic. She's fully
authentic. It feels like you're talking
[music] with someone whenever she's just
speaking to a whole congregation of
people or whether it's online. It just
[music] sets her apart that she is so
conversational and you don't feel bad
about [music] thinking what you're
thinking when you're thinking it because
she's saying it out loud.
>> I was exposed to Joyce Meyer in New
York. We lived [music] in the state of
New York then. I was teaching then and
um I had known of her but then ran into
a mutual Christian friend that loved
[music] her too and had the capacity at
that time or the finances to get most of
her cassette tapes. who were cassette
tapes then. So I asked her, I said,
"Well, would you mind if I listen if you
loan those to me? Could I listen to
those?" And she said, "Sure, I'd be glad
to do that." And so, um, I took [music]
them and basically did a Joyce Meyer
study through a cassette tape and
[music] realized that she's a woman that
not only understands
problems Christians face, but what to do
about it. As you're hearing this
teaching today, we are confident that
the truth of God's word absolutely can
transform your life. The question is
how? That's why Joyce's message and
insight is so incredibly helpful. And
now the choice is up to you. So, as a
first step, all you need to do to
[music] get this lifechanging message is
to decide what it's worth to you. That's
right. Because for your gift of any
amount you choose to give, we will send
you Joyce's best-selling book,
Battlefield of the Mind, along with What
Are You Thinking? It's a small, easy to
apply booklet that is full of practical
and powerful encouragements from Joyce
as well as scriptures that you can
confess and speak [music] out loud. When
you get these great books, we'll even
pay for the shipping and handling. It's
our gift to you in appreciation for your
[music] gift of any amount. Call the
number on your screen or go to the
website and simply request these
resources [music]
for your gift of any amount. Or ask
about the Battlefield of the Mind
special bundle for your gift of $75 or
more. It includes all of these great
resources plus Joyce's Battlefield of
the Mind Bible. This special amplified
edition Bible will help you win the
battle in your mind through clear,
practical application of God's word to
your life. All of these incredible
resources were created to give you the
tools you need to change your thinking,
which ultimately leads to a changed
life. You'll also love that your
donation will help spread the gospel and
the love of Christ all over the world.
We're so committed to helping you on
your journey that we'll send you that
great little booklet, What Are You
Thinking? by itself [music] absolutely
free. Simply request it or receive it as
a bonus when you request either of the
teaching packages being offered today.
[music] Now, let's get back to Joyce and
her teaching.
>> 1 Corinthians 2:16 says, "For who has
known or understood the mind of the
Lord?
who can guide and instruct him and give
him knowledge. But we have the mind of
Christ and we do hold the thoughts,
feelings, and purposes of his heart. So
it's in you. Now what is this thing?
Well,
this is the way we look on the outside
when we start.
Even though you're saved,
if you're bald, you're still bald when
you look at yourself in the mirror.
You don't lose 50 pounds because you got
saved.
You're not suddenly out of debt because
you got saved.
But when you receive Christ, you
received you got a download
of every good thing
that you can imagine.
It was just like God put in a new
program.
Are you understanding me?
>> See, in your spirit, you're a spirit.
You have a soul and you live in a body.
But in your spirit,
everything is
gorgeous.
>> God has to clean that up and make it
holy because he can't live anywhere
that's not holy. And he when when you're
born again, the spirit of God comes to
live inside of you. Can you get a hold
of the fact that God lives in you? You
are the home of God.
You getting it? The home of God. So this
is what you look like
on the exterior, but this is what you
look like on the interior.
Amen.
You know,
it amazes me that God always hides all
the good stuff and you got to dig for
it.
I mean, think about it.
Gold is hidden in hills.
All the precious metals, diamonds,
they're all You got to dig for them. You
got to work for them. But the all this
good stuff is in you and all you need to
do is just let God keep chipping away at
this junk out here
>> until you can see it.
>> This is what you really are, not this.
>> People will tell you this is what you
are and this is what you'll always be.
But you can tell them, "Oh no, I've got
something good going on. It's just it's
just
it's on its way.
I'm not where I need to be, but thank
God I'm not where I used to be.
>> I'm okay and I'm on my way. Baby, I'm
coming.
Amen.
>> I tell you what,
how do you get the devil back if he has
tried to ruin your life?
You can't slap him. You can't strangle
him. You can't get a hold of him. But
you overcome evil with good.
This whole thing, this this thing we're
doing here this weekend, this kind of
stuff drives the devil nuts.
>> It's a good thing we got a room full of
angels here.
>> See, there's more going on that we don't
see than what we do see.
I'll tell you something that a woman
came and told me.
Her husband wasn't a believer.
Wasn't that crazy about me, but his wife
loved me. And so he
he brought her to a conference that I
was having in Phoenix
at Pastor Tommy Barnett's church. and
for her birthday. He he said, "I'll take
you as your birthday gift." And so she
said during the service, he started
shaking
and then he started crying and she's
like, "What? What's wrong? What what's
the matter?" And he said, "Well, don't
you see him?
Don't you see him?" And she said, "See
who? See what? What are you talking
about?" He said, "All those
men dressed in white that are around
Joyce."
And anyway, the story was he said, "When
they first came out, when she came out,
they first came out, I thought it was a
choir."
But then, and this this is what I love.
Then when she went to the podium
and took the Bible and opened it up,
they formed a semiircle around her. And
when she picked up the word, they all
drew their swords.
>> I was reading something by Billy Graham
the other day and he told a story very
similar to that.
And so there we this place is full of
angels.
>> You you have angels with you all the
time.
>> And do you know what the Bible says in
10
something? Psalm something.
1037 or 1073. I don't know. It's in
there.
That
angels
hearken to the word of God.
Do you hear that? Angels hearken. They
listen.
When you say, "I am the righteousness of
God in Christ," they're like, "That's
somebody I can work with."
>> But when you say, "I I never do anything
right. I am so stupid." They're like,
"Can't help you."
Angels hearken to the word of God. The
more you speak the word of God out of
your mouth, the more powerful you're
going to become.
Well, I'm going to feel stupid walking
around talking to myself.
>> Oh, you talk to yourself anyway. You
might as well start saying something
that makes sense.
Amen.
>> [cheering]
>> I don't even know where I'm at here now.
But
I'm trying to get people to understand
this, what it means to be in Christ.
See, otherwise it gets very confusing.
It's like, well, if I've got all that,
where's it at?
>> In here. That's right.
>> What you got to let God help you with is
>> out here.
>> So what's in here
can get out here
so people can see it and glorify God
and know by what they see in you, the
change they see in you that God is real.
And you make them hungry and thirsty for
what you have.
Come on. How do you feel about yourself?
>> Do you love yourself?
>> H you're you're too weak.
>> Yeah. Do you love yourself?
>> All right. I want you to say that every
day. I love myself. I love
>> I love myself because God loves me. All
you're doing is receiving God's love
when you say you love yourself. I love
myself. You cannot love other people if
you don't love yourself.
>> This message from Joyce Meyer is an
excerpt from one of her most popular
serieses [music] she ever taught. The
good news is that she dives much deeper
into the subject in her book,
Battlefield of the Mind. And I can
confidently tell you that this message
continues to change lives [music] every
single day. You've heard Joyce share
just a fraction of the message here, but
there's so much more available to you.
So, in Joyce's book, Battlefield of the
Mind, she talks about a worried mind.
[music]
She says that literally you are choosing
to torment yourself. Well, that really
spoke to me because [music] I have three
little boys and it's their natural
instinct to put themselves in [music]
danger. But when I read that from
Joyce's book that I am tormenting
myself, it was like a light bulb went
off that the enemy before I fall asleep
torments [music] me with all the ways my
sons put themsel in danger and that one
day they will [music] succeed. And I
realized that's the enemy tormenting me
with worry. I need to just trust the
Lord and pray and go to sleep and apply
what Joyce is saying. [music] Meditate
on the word instead of being tormented.
I go back to Battlefield the mind, pick
it up again. And it I may only read it
for 5 minutes. And [music] when you
completely change your thoughts, then
your day changes, your life changes, you
know, relationships change. I'm
encouraged by Joyce because she,
you know, she's not afraid to to tell
the truth. She started uh her ministry
what later on in life. Um and so for
those of us who felt like we got a late
start in life, [music] we can really
resonate with just the power that God
can God can use you at any age, at any
[music] time in your life. Um, and so
her teachings and and her stories, um,
they they just speak to me because I
[music] feel like, you know, God's not
done with me. Now, we only have a few
more minutes, so I want to encourage you
to actively choose to change the way you
think. Make a call or click today and
give a donation of any amount and we'll
send you Joyce's book, Battlefield of
the Mind, along with a small, easy to
apply booklet, What Are You Thinking?
We'll even pay shipping and handling. Or
you can take [music] it a step further
and request the Battlefield of the Mind
special bundle complete with everything
you see here for [music] just $75,
including the Battlefield of the Mind
Bible. This Bible is filled with
wonderful [music] notes, prayers, and
verses to confess over your life. Enjoy
the opportunity to experience scripture
as if Joyce were sitting right next
[music] to you. And it's everything you
need to immediately begin the journey to
changing the way you [music] think in
order to win the battle in your mind.
And again, if you are unable to make a
donation, we would love to send you What
Are You Thinking by Itself absolutely
free. It's because we believe that God
wants you to experience the joy of a
renewed mind [music] and a renewed life.
Just ask for it or you'll receive it as
a bonus when you order either of the
teaching packages being offered today.
[music] Remember, your donation will
also help share the love of Christ
around the world through word and
action. This is an opportunity you don't
want to miss. Well, I want to thank you
very much for joining us for this
special presentation. And I hope and
pray that you are ready to take the
necessary steps to win the battlefield
[music] in your mind. Even if you have
major problems in your thinking, be
encouraged. God is on your side. And
today you can begin to change your mind
and your life for the better. Be sure to
watch our Enjoying Everyday Life
television [music] program each day. You
can go to joycemeyer.org to find out
what time our program airs in your area.
God bless you and [music] thank you
again for joining us.
We hope you enjoyed today's program.
We are [music] so grateful to our Joyce
Meyer Ministries partners who make this
and all we do possible, including
sharing God's word and offering [music]
help to people in need all over the
world.
This [music] is the beginning of
something new. A new place of refuge and
healing in the heart of the United
States and new beginnings [music]
for countless people who will come to
this place in their time of need. Hope
is on the horizon.
>> Hope Mountain Ranch [music] began as a
dream in my son Dan's heart.
>> We know that starting the ouches [music]
here at the ranch is one of those things
that God's called us to do. And so we're
just going to keep [music] walking
through the doors that he opens and try
to help as many people as we can.
Birthed out of Joyce's own experience of
brokenness and [music] healing, Hope
Mountain Ranch is a cooperative effort
with many ministries working together to
provide God's word and [music] his
transforming love. The Dream Center at
Hope Mountain Range will be the first of
many outreach facilities on this
beautiful property. [music]
Well, here we are at the groundbreaking
of what's going to be our first home
here for [music] at risk women and
children. We're honored to be working
here [music] with the Dream Center.
We're here with Pastor Tommy Barnett and
with Angel Barnett. We are [music]
determined to help people that have been
hurt know that Jesus is their healer.
So, we're going to pray. Father, we come
to you in Jesus name. Yes,
>> and all of this ground is yours. And we
[music] want to see thousands of women
and children graduate from this place
[music]
to a life of blessing and purpose. And
so we pray that you'd give us favor
[music] and that you'd bring alongside
the people that you want to help us with
this, that the project would go really
well. [music] And we thank you for
letting us have this opportunity to
minister to women and girls, all the
other things that you want to do, Lord,
to [music] bring healing to people in
Jesus name.
[cheering]
>> This program has been made possible by
the [music] partners of Joyce Meyer
Ministries.
>> This woman touched him with her faith.
>> [music]
>> Can you touch God with your faith today
and believe that no matter what kind of
[music] problem you have, that God is
great enough to get you out of the mess
and bring restoration [music] into your
life?
I do what I do because I've seen God's
power transform [music] my own life and
he will do it for you. The key to
everything is [music] found in God's
word.
I'm Joyce Meyer and I believe that God
can heal you everywhere you hurt.
[music]
Well, thank you for joining us today on
enjoying everyday life. You know, the
more you learn about the word of God,
the more you will be able to enjoy every
single day of your life, even on those
ones that are difficult and hard to
endure. I've been talking about fear and
overcoming fear with faith and learning
how to do it afraid. So, just in case
you haven't been watching, what do I
mean when I say do it afraid? Well, the
word fear actually means to take flight
or to run away from. And there's many
places in the Bible where it says, "Fear
not, for I am with you." Now, God wasn't
telling the people that he was talking
to not to feel fear. We're always going
to feel fear at different times in our
life for different reasons on different
occasions. But keeping in mind that we
don't have to bow down to every feeling
that we have. We can do it afraid even
if we feel afraid. Don't let fear
control you and keep you from doing the
things that you believe that God wants
you to do or the things that are really
in your heart that you want to do. You
probably have so many opportunities to
be in fear that you can't even imagine
how many you have. But every time fear
comes knocking on your door, you need to
answer with faith. But to live without
fear, we need to learn to also live
without doubt. Now, I'm not saying that
God gets mad at us every time we doubt.
Thomas doubted and he said, "I won't
believe that it's you unless I can put
my hands
in your wounds." And so Jesus let him do
it. He He showed them to him. But then
Jesus also said, "Blessed are those who
believe and have not seen." And I think
that's the place we want to get to. I
mean, if you have a real doubt, you can
talk openly to God about that. But then
also stay in prayer that you'll get to
the point where you're not tormented
with those doubts. We need to learn how
to doubt our doubts because every time
doubt comes, it means that the enemy is
trying to steal something from us. And I
like to say that doubt is like baby
fear. It's it's not fullgrown tormenting
fear yet, but it's the beginning of it.
And so if we can catch it in the
beginning, then we have a greater chance
of overcoming it.
Abraham had faith
for the impossible.
God told him that he would give him his
own child, but he and Sarah were both
beyond childbearing years.
And during the time that he waited,
yes, I said waited. during the time he
waited for God to bring that promise to
pass in his life. Let's read what the
Bible says about him. Romans 4:18-21.
In hope, Abraham believed against hope
that he should become the father of many
nations. Some translations read, "All
reason for hope being gone, he hoped on
in faith." In other words, he had no
natural reason to hope. There was
nothing for him to look at that said,
"Well, that's hopeful." I mean, he could
look at Sarah's
almost dead,
barren body and think, "Well, I don't
have any hope in that." He could look at
himself who was 100 years old and think,
"Well, I don't have any hope in this."
You know, we don't need to try to find
our hope in things here on the earth. We
need to find our hope in God. And I
really think it's time for us to really
go back to believing that all things are
possible with God. And sometimes I don't
think it's so much that we doubt that
God can do it, but we doubt that he will
do it for us. We have doubts about
ourselves. And we're going to talk about
that today.
So all reason for hope being gone, he
hoped on in faith that he would become
the father of many nations just as it
had been promised to him. Now listen to
this. He did not weaken in faith when he
considered his own body which was as
good as dead since he was about a
hundred years old or when he considered
the barrenness of Sarah's womb. So he
didn't hide from his circumstances. He
looked at his circumstances but he said
God is greater. And I think that's what
God wants you to do. Don't be afraid of
your circumstances. Look at them. stare
them in the face and say,
"I see this. I see this. I see this and
I see this. But none of you are greater
than my God. With God all things are
possible."
No unbelief,
some translations say no doubt or
unbelief made him waver concerning the
promise of God.
But I get this. But he grew strong in
faith as he gave praise and glory to
God. He grew strong. His faith got
stronger as he continued to praise God
and thank him ahead of time for what he
was going to do. You know, when you've
asked God to do something that seems
like it's impossible in your life, one
of the things to do every time doubt
comes to you is just open your mouth and
say, "I believe that God is working in
my life and my victory will come at just
the right time." The Bible says, "This
is the victory
that overcomes the world, even our
faith." Faith brings a victory into your
life. What what is faith? Faith is the
substance of things hoped for, the
evidence of things not seen. Now, let's
think about that. What is it? It's the
substance of things that you hope for
but don't see yet. The evidence of
things that you do not see. Let's think
of an example. Okay? I my husband and I
own a house here in our city. Well,
you might say, "Well, how do I know you
own a house? I can't see your house. I
can't bring my house here to the studio
and say, "See, here's my house." But I
could bring the title to my home and I
could show you the title deed and then
you would say, "Yes, I believe that you
have a house." Well, the Bible says that
faith is the title deed to the things
that we hope for that we have not seen
yet. But fear is actually believing for
the negative.
it. Fear is the evidence of things we
don't hope for and the substance of
things we don't want to see happen. And
I believe that faith has creative power,
but I think that fear has creative
power, too. And I'm not going to say
that every time you fear something, you
cause it to happen. But I think if you
stay in fear long enough about something
that it can actually affect your
circumstances.
Was it Job that said, "The thing I
greatly feared came upon me."
We can do warfare with our words when
faith comes.
Abraham said, "No unbelief made him
waver concerning the promise of God, but
he grew strong as he gave praise and
glory to God." Fully convinced that God
was able to do what he promised. And I
think that's where we need to draw the
line today. Are you fully convinced
that God loves you?
That he will always do the very best for
you?
Do you believe that all things are
possible with God?
See, I've learned to trust God to the
point where if I ask him for something
and I don't get it, then I know
that my prayer wasn't right. It's not
that God's not right. what I asked for
was not the best that God wanted to give
me. And so, he's not giving me what I
asked for because it's not going to be
the best for me. You know, a lot of
times we ask for things that we think
would be just right. But really, it
might be something that you're not ready
to handle yet or God's got something
better in mind for you and you just
don't even know how to ask for it yet. I
think God has got so many great things
for us and we just don't have the nerve.
We don't have the faith to ask God to do
them. Why? Because we doubt ourselves.
We doubt that God would do that for us.
But you have to remember that you're no
surprise to God. He knew everything
about you before you were ever born.
Every day of your life was written in
his book before he ever formed you in
your mother's womb. He knew every
mistake you would make. He knows every
mistake you ever will make. And as long
as you believe in him,
as long as you walk in faith, and you
trust that Jesus died for your sins, you
admit your sins, you repent of [music]
them, and you want to live a godly life,
your sins are forgiven and removed as
far as the east is from the west. God's
not mad at you, and he wants to help
you. There is a lot to be said about the
subject of fear because honestly there's
so much surrounding us that can cause
fear, but one of the things I love most
about Joyce is her passion and
commitment to helping us deal with fear
confidently. So right now I want to ask
you, what are you afraid of today? Is
there a situation or circumstance
[music] that threatens to overwhelm you
or is stealing your peace and causing
you to worry? If so, [music] I have good
news for you. We want to give you the
opportunity to take a practical step to
confronting and overcoming your fear.
And you can discover how in the book Do
It Afraid by Joyce Meyer. In fact,
[music] here are some incredible
testimonies of how others just like you
and me are winning the fight against
fear. Fear is something [music] that
I've battled my whole life. Um, just
fear of harm and fear of being alone,
fear of sickness, [music]
whatever. I' I've been afraid since I
was a little girl. I knew that I could
not keep doing that. I knew that God
wanted me free. I knew that I needed to
transform my mind. After reading Joyce's
book, [music] Do It Afraid, it
definitely highlighted some areas of my
life that I may have been letting fear
rule. And one of those has been becoming
a mother. I definitely am fearful that
[music] I won't be good enough. I'm
fearful that I won't be able to protect
my future children um both [music]
physically and mentally. Um and I I even
have the fear that maybe I won't be able
to have children. In dude afraid, Joyce
showed me
that even though I'm afraid, I still
[music] have to step out. I have to step
out and do whatever God's calling
[music] me to do. Do whatever I need to
do to be free of a spirit [music] of
fear. I have to step out and do it
afraid, knowing, and I love this because
she says [music] this in the book so
many times, we are not alone. He is
always with us. He's never [music]
leaving us or forsaking us. Joyce says,
"Don't just pray for fear to go away.
Pray for [music] God to give you
boldness, confidence, and strength." And
to me, that means that it's okay to have
fear, and it's okay to pray for fear to
go away. But it's important to pray for
God to help give you the courage [music]
to take action. As you're hearing this
message today, our desire is that it
will bring you confidence that you can
absolutely overcome fear. So today, as a
first step, all you need to do to get
this life-changing message is to decide
what it's worth to you. [music]
That's right. For your gift of any
amount you choose to give, we'll send
you Joyce's best-selling book, Do It
Afraid, along with Facing Fear and
Moving Forward. It's a small, easy to
apply booklet that is full of powerful
encouragements from Joyce as well as
scriptures that you can confess and
speak out loud. When you get these great
books, [music] we'll even pay for the
shipping and handling. It's our gift to
you in appreciation for your gift of any
amount. Call the number on your screen
or go to the website and simply request
these resources for whatever you want to
give today. Or ask about the Doit Afraid
special study bundle for your gift of
$75 or more, which includes all of these
wonderful resources, plus the Everyday
Life Bible. It's so good. The
combination of the amplified text and
Joyce's [music]
extensive personal notes and commentary
allow you the opportunity to study the
scripture as if Joyce were sitting right
there next to you. [music] Plus, there's
nothing like knowing and speaking God's
word to help you overcome fear in your
life. God's word, it just works. All of
these incredible resources will help you
on your journey as you actively confront
and overcome [music]
fear. You'll also love that your
donation will help spread the gospel and
the love of Christ all over the world.
We are so committed to helping you
experience the life that is larger than
your fear. We'll send you facing fear
and moving forward by itself absolutely
free. Simply request it or receive it as
a bonus when you request either of the
teaching packages being offered today.
Now, let's get back to Joyce and her
[music] teaching.
I want to share a story with you in Mark
5
where Jesus actually ignored
the voice of doubt and unbelief.
And you know, I think we're going to
have to learn how to recognize when
God's speaking to us and when the enemy
is speaking to us. And if it's the
enemy, we're just going to have to say,
"Well, I know you're a liar, so I'm
going to ignore you and not pay any
attention."
Mark 5:22. And I want you to try to
insert yourself in this story. Sometimes
we just read these things, but we don't
really think about it. I, as I go
through this, I want you to pretend like
you're here and you're seeing all this.
One of the rulers of the synagogue, J
Iris by name,
seeing Jesus, fell at his feet and
implored him earnestly, saying, "My
little daughter is at the point of
death. Come and lay your hands on her so
that she may be made well and alive."
Imagine the intensity
of this man's prayer. My little daughter
is almost dead, but I believe you. Will
you come and lay your hands on her so
she might get well? Well, Jesus was full
of compassion and so it says he went
with him. But there was a great crowd
that was following them because there
were crowds that followed Jesus
everywhere that he went. And in that
crowd there was a woman who had been
bleeding for 12 years. And she'd been to
every doctor. Nobody made her better
made her any better. And it had cost her
all the money that she had. But she had
heard about Jesus. And the Amplified
Bible says, "She kept saying to herself,
if I can only touch the hem of his
garment, I know I shall be healed." I
love that. You know, if you're going to
talk to yourself, you might as well talk
about something positive. I believe if I
can just get to Jesus and touch him that
I shall be healed. And so, he's on his
way to heal this man's daughter who's
almost dead. And now, he stops
to help somebody else. Think about how
that would make you feel. Think about if
you were J Iris. What kind of doubt and
fear would have attacked your mind at
that time?
When she touched Jesus, immediately the
flow of blood dried up and she felt in
her body that she was healed of her
disease. And Jesus felt the power go out
of him. This power of God is a real
thing. It's a tangible thing. you c you
know when the power of God is working in
your life.
And Jesus turned to the crowd and said,
"Who touched me?" Well, the disciples
thought that was a foolish question.
There's such a big crowd here. Who what
do you mean who touched you? There's all
kinds [clears throat] of people touching
you. But you know, they this woman
touched him with her faith.
Can you touch God with your faith today
and believe that no matter what kind of
problem you have that God is great
enough to get you out of the mess and
bring restoration into your life?
But the woman knowing what had happened
to her came with fear and trembling and
fell down before him and told him the
whole entire truth. And he said to her,
"Daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace. your faith. Faith does
things. Faith brings deliverance. Faith
brings change. Faith brings healing.
Faith brings that job that you need when
there's no jobs to be had.
While he was still speaking, someone
came from Jrus's house and said, "Your
daughter is dead. You don't need to
trouble the master any longer." Oh my
gosh.
How did he feel?
Jesus,
why did you have to stop for her right
now? I told you what a desperate
situation I was in. I'm not saying
that's what he said, but he might have
felt like saying that. But now listen to
this in verse 36.
Mark 5:36. But overhearing, the
Amplified Bible says, "But ignoring
what they said, Jesus said to the ruler
of the synagogue, do not fear, only
believe." Wow. He's asking,
I mean, that's a lot.
Just keep your eyes on Jesus.
What does it say? I think it's Hebrews
12 that says, "Looking away from all
that will distract unto Jesus who is the
author and the finisher of your faith."
God doesn't didn't just start faith in
you for something to leave you destitute
and without an answer. He's the author
and the finisher of your faith. But
sometimes you need to keep believing
when everything looks like nothing is
going to work and you're never going to
get what you ask God for. I just sense
in my heart today that there are people
who have given up your dream. There's
people that the enemy has talked into,
just forget it. It's never going to
happen. Just forget it.
You're just full of bright ideas. None
of this is anything God spoke to you.
Listen, turn your head off for a few
minutes and go back and see what's in
your heart. If you did miss it and you
made a mistake, then admit it and say
so. But if you say, "No, I I believe
that that's what God wants to do. I
believe this is something that God spoke
to me." Then you need to stir your faith
up today.
Fan that flame that once burned on the
inside of you and go back to saying, "I
believe God, and I don't care how long
it takes. I'm not going to give up on
God because I've got his word on this
and he is faithful. So,
he allowed no one to follow him except
Peter and James and John. Now, why was
that? You know what? Jesus was going to
go in and raise this girl from the dead.
And he didn't want a bunch of doubt and
unbelief around him. He wanted faith
around him. And you know what? When
you're in a desperate situation and
everything looks like nothing's going to
work, you don't need a bunch of people
around you that are negative and always
telling you what's not going to work.
You need to surround yourself with
positive people, people of faith, people
that would encourage you and believe God
with you.
They came to the ruler's house and there
was a great commotion. People weeping
and wailing loudly.
And when he entered into them, he said,
"Why are you making such a commotion?
The child is not dead, but she's just
sleeping." And they laughed at him. But
look what he did. But he put them all
outside.
Once again, he got rid of the doubt and
unbelief. He put them all outside and
took the child's father and mother and
those who were with him, Peter, James,
and John, went to where the child was,
and of course, he raised her up and she
got up made totally whole. You know
what? Some of you could change your life
if you would just simply get away from
some of the negative,
doubtful people that you hang around
with all the time. The word doubt, if we
define it, means to be without a way,
to be without resources,
to be embarrassed, to be in doubt,
perplexed at a loss. Doubt can also mean
to stand in two ways implying
uncertainty about which way to take.
It's said of believers with little faith
to be in midair. Think of the phrase
everything is all just up in the air.
Well, you know what? God wants us to
know that he's good and that he wants to
help us. So, I want to say to you right
now, make your mind up what you believe
and stick with it. I want to say it
again. Make your mind up what you
believe and stick with it. And don't
think for one minute that you won't be
tested because you will. You may have to
wait. It may look like nothing's going
to work, but that's when you fight the
good fight of faith and you keep saying,
"I will not fear because God has not
given me a spirit of fear, but of power
and love and a sound mind, and I know
God loves me, and he's got a good plan
for my life." The devil always wants to
tell you what you're not. But see,
whatever you're not, Jesus will make up
for it and make you more than enough if
you put your faith in him. And don't
don't always go around saying, "I
shouldn't have done that." I mean, how
many times in my life did I get up early
in the morning to spend time with God
and I would pray and study the Bible?
And I mean, every time I would get done,
the devil would make me feel like I
prayed wrong. I didn't pray in the right
posture. I didn't pray in the right
position. I didn't pray long enough. God
didn't hear me. And I had to learn to
stop believing those lies and stop
doubting myself. And you know what? That
may be one of the most important things
that you'll hear for a long time. Stop
doubting yourself. You know what? God
believes in you,
but it's not going to do you any good if
you don't believe in you, too. And I'm
not saying to have a hotty, prideful
attitude that, well, you know, bless
God, I'm all this and all that. But what
I am saying is get up every day
intending to do your very best for God,
knowing ahead of time that you're not
going to hit the mark 100% perfect, but
believing that God is more than enough
to cover your sins and take care of
them. God doesn't want you to live in
the torment of self-doubt. Believe you
can hear from God. Believe God loves
you. Believe he's got a good plan for
your life. Believe that there's no
mistake that you can make that is too
great for God to turn it around and make
it [music] a miracle in your life.
This message from Joyce Meyer is an
excerpt from a recent series she taught
on how to face and overcome fear, and
it's something we all need.
>> [music]
>> She delves much deeper into the subject
in her book, Do It Afraid, which has
become one of our most popular
resources. You've heard Joyce share just
a fraction of the message here, but
there's so much more available to you.
>> You know, Joyce's impact has really been
benefited [music] from her teaching for
decades now, but my wife in particular
really really has. [music]
uh she's spoken to uh my bride in ways
[music] that has allowed her to move
into freedom in areas where she was in
bondage.
>> The whole thing is that it's never too
late to do the right thing. Especially
in [music] this season of life that I'm
in, I can say, you know, I don't really
need to be doing that.
I it's not worth stepping [music] out in
fear to do it because I'm in this season
that I'm in. But it's it's not that's
not true. That's a lie of the enemy. And
God is always pushing us to do more,
pushing us to be set free [music] from
whatever. But I know that
it's not too late.
>> Because Joyce is so real and she's
speaking [music] out of lived
experience. It's not theological,
theoretical. It's lived experience
[music] rooted in biblical truth. In
dealing with fear, Joyce has helped me
understand that [music] it's okay to
feel fear. But don't let that hold you
back from God's plan and purpose for
your life. Today, I want you to hear
that no matter what circumstances you
are facing. With God's help, you can
find freedom when you apply [music] the
truth of his word. And those principles
are found in Joyce's book, Do It Afraid.
Now, we only have a few more minutes, so
I want to encourage you to actively face
and overcome your fear. Make a call or
click today and give a donation of any
amount and we'll send you Joyce's book,
Do It Afraid, along with the small, easy
to apply booklet, Facing [music] Fear
and Moving Forward. We'll even pay
shipping and handling. Or you can take
it a step further and request the Do It
Afraid special study bundle complete
with everything you see here for just
$75.
It includes the Everyday Life Bible.
This Bible [music] features Joyce's
extensive personal notes and commentary.
It is great. So, enjoy the opportunity
to study scripture just like Joyce was
right there beside you. And it's
everything you need to immediately begin
the journey to face and overcome your
fear. And again, if you are unable to
make a donation, we would love to send
you Facing Fear and Moving Forward by
itself absolutely free. It's because we
believe in the word of God and we also
believe that God [music] wants you to
live beyond your fear. So just ask for
it or receive it as a bonus when you
order either of the teaching packages
[music] being offered today. And
remember, your donation will also help
share the love of Christ around the
world through word and action. This is
an opportunity you don't [music] want to
miss.
We hope you enjoyed today's program.
We are so grateful to our Joyce [music]
Meyer Ministries partners who make this
and all we do possible, including
[music] sharing God's word and offering
help to people in need all over the
world.
>> [music]
>> Boy, you know, in today's world, there
are many stressors, so many things to
deal with on a daily basis. How do we
navigate all of life's [music]
pressures? Well, God's word has much to
say about it. So, I thought we could all
get together with some of my friends and
talk about it. Join us for the Enjoying
Everyday [music] Life Conference, a
weekend of practical messages and
heartfelt worship with Joyce and her
guests Dr. Henry Cloud, Nona [music]
Jones, and worship with Naomi Ray. April
10th and 11th in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
>> You know, I have such [music] a passion
for teaching God's word, and it's even
better when we all get together under
one roof. So, I really hope to see you
there.
>> Register today. [music]
Go to joycemeyer.org.
[music]
This program is made possible by the
partners of Joyce Meyer Ministries.
>> We just stand around, let everybody else
determine our worth and value, and we
don't have to do that. Get into
agreement with God, and you will see
amazing [music] things happen in your
life. I'm Joyce Meyer. I've seen God's
power transform [music]
my own life and he will do it for you.
Hi, I'm Joyce Meyer and I want to
welcome you to this special presentation
of enjoying everyday life. You know, I'm
really glad that you've [music] joined
us. For more than 25 years, I've been
teaching people about the importance of
lining their words up with the word of
God. I've learned that when you get in
agreement with God, you will see amazing
things [music] in your life.
Words are containers for power. They can
carry encouragement [music] and lift
people up or destruction that tears
people down. And we get [music] to
choose which it's going to be. The Bible
says in Proverbs 18:21 that the power of
death and life is in the tongue. Learn
to [music] speak what God says over your
life and situations rather than speaking
destructive and negative words that can
only harm [music] yourself and others.
There's so much fear and stress in the
world today. And for us to truly enjoy
our lives, we need to win [music] this
battle over our words and learn to speak
faith, not fear, into [music] our
circumstances. So go with me now to one
of our recent conferences where I share
some keys to changing your [music] words
and changing your life. I really believe
you'll be helped and blessed.
>> Nothing reveals more about the real us
than our words.
You can learn so much about yourself by
listening to yourself.
I learned things about myself I would
just assume that I wouldn't have known.
The good man from his inner good
treasure flings forth good things. And
the evil man out of his inner evil
storehouse flings forth evil things.
James 3:2. If anyone does not offend in
speech, if he never says the wrong
things, he is a fully developed
character and a perfect man able to
control his whole body and curb his
entire nature. My goodness, he's saying
if we can control our mouth, we can
control everything else in our life.
Some of you are trying real hard to
control what you put in your mouth.
And you might be better off to start
first trying to control what comes out
of it.
See, I can show you a scripture that
says it's not what goes into the mouth
that defiles the man, but what comes out
of his mouth that defiles him.
>> So, I'll just give you an example. Let's
just say that um how many of you have a
problem with sugar? You just eat way too
much sugar. Okay. Well, let me give you
a hint. Don't say
50 times a week,
I crave sugar.
[laughter]
I just have to have sugar. I'm addicted
to sugar.
If I eat one cookie, I've got to eat the
whole bag.
If I eat one bite of ice cream, I've got
to eat the whole quart.
Don't say that kind of stuff cuz every
time you do, you're just assuring
yourself that you're going to keep the
problem. What you should say, and I
don't care if you have to start with the
spoon on your way to your mouth, you
start by saying, "I am not addicted to
sugar. I don't crave sweets. I have
self-control.
I have a disciplined appetite.
>> [cheering]
>> Now see, if you didn't come for anything
other than that, it's going to help you.
>> You said, "Well, I'm just telling the
truth." I'm not. Yes, that may be a fact
in your life. But the truth is greater
than facts. And the truth is God's word.
And God's word says that he whom the son
has set free is free indeed.
So, don't say, "I'm addicted to this.
I'm addicted to that. I can't help this.
I can't help that." And for goodness
sakes, don't ever say, "I just don't
have any discipline or self-control."
>> I don't care if you're the laziest
person on the planet. I want you to
start saying, "I am a man or a woman of
discipline and self-control.
>> I can control myself.
I started smoking cigarettes when I was
9 years old. And um yeah, 9 years old.
And uh I hung around with kids in the
neighborhood that were older than me and
they all smoked so I smoked. And so um I
smoked up until I was about um 35,
something around there. And I always
said, "Oh, I know I could just I know I
could never quit smoking.
It would be so hard for me if I ever
tried to quit smoking. Well, sure enough
then when I wanted to to quit, it was
hard for me. Very hard for me. And one
of the things that God led me to do, and
here again, this may sound like I'm a
lunatic, but I don't care. I'm trying to
help you, so I don't care what you
think.
I remember driving home from work at
night with a cigarette between my
fingers saying, "I don't smoke. I can't
stand to smoke. Cigarettes stink. I
don't spend my money on cigarettes. And
I'm telling you the honest truth. It was
not very many weeks after that and I
quit.
Now,
I'm not telling you that this is just
like a little magic charm and you can
just say anything you want and get
anything you want. But I am telling you
that if you want to stop doing
something, then you have to stop talking
like you can never stop doing it.
Amen.
Are you sure you're getting this? You're
just like, okay, [cheering]
how many of you say bad things about
yourself?
>> Oh, I would like to come out there and
shake you.
Oh my gosh. One of the worst things that
we can do is say negative, downgrading
things about ourselves.
>> Let me tell you something. The devil's
already against you and you don't need
to agree with him.
>> What you need to do is get into
agreement with God. Amos 3:3 says, "How
can two walk together unless they be
agreed?" What I'm trying to say to you
today is bring your conversation into
agreement with God's word instead of
just talking out of how you feel and
what you think all the time. And I I can
guarantee you that you will begin to see
changes in your life. Now, it may not be
overnight, but what happens? What you
say runs right along here, gets in your
ears, and drops right down into your
spirit.
>> And I'm going to show you a scripture in
a minute that says we eat our words.
You've said to people, you are going to
eat those words. Well, the truth is is
you actually do eat your words. Your
words affect you more than anybody
else's words affect you. So, let's just
say that you're living with somebody
that's really negative and downgrading
and they're constantly putting you down.
And some of the sometimes people will
say to me, "Well, how in the world can I
can I keep a good attitude? How can I
not get depressed if I'm living with
somebody that puts me down all the
time?" Well, you know what? It is hard
and it's challenging, but you can do two
things. You can make sure that you have
enough friends that build you up that it
helps to override those negative things.
And as soon as somebody says something
negative to you, if you can't get them
not to say it, you go in another room by
yourself and you say what God says about
you out loud.
Hey, I don't know. Let's just let's just
say you're a woman. You're married to a
man and he tells you five times a week
you're stupid. Well, you need to go tell
yourself 25 times a week that you have
the mind of Christ.
I like this. This is good today.
Cuz what you say
is going to mean more to you than what
somebody else says. The thing we do is
we just stand around, let everybody else
determine our worth and value. And we
don't have to do that. Get into
agreement with God and you will see
amazing things happen in your life.
>> If I I do not have one day of my life
that goes by that I don't confess the
word of God out loud. Every day of my
life, I mean every day, I still say I am
the righteousness of God through Christ.
>> I am a new creature in Christ. Old
things have passed away and all things
become brand new. You know why I say
that? because I had such a hard time
with guilt and condemnation. And I felt
so bad about myself for so many years
because of the abuse that my father had
perpetrated on me. And I just felt no
good. And I tell you what, it was a
battle for me to fight my way through to
ever believing that I had right standing
with God through Christ. And once I got
it, I was determined I was never going
to lose it. And I continually renew my
mind by saying there is no condemnation
for those in Christ. God loves me. I'm
his child. I'm accepted. He's pleased
with me. Yes, I said God is pleased with
you. And there's nothing wrong with you
saying that. He may not be pleased with
everything you do, but he is pleased
with you.
Well, we need more time than I've got,
don't we?
You say, "Well, well, wouldn't it be
like a wrong kind of pride
for me to stand in a room and say, and
I'm not suggesting you go say this to
somebody else, but wouldn't it be wrong
for me just to say, "God is pleased with
me?" No, I don't think so. You know why?
Because that's what his word says.
>> Don't say things like, "I'm stupid. I'm
fat. I'm ugly. I'm dumb.
I can't do anything right." Don't Don't
do that kind of stuff.
Don't say negative things about yourself
out of your own mouth. Say about you
what God says about you. And it won't be
long and you'll see those things. It'll
renew your mind. It changes your whole
attitude toward yourself. And you'll be
amazed if you just start saying, "I am a
person of discipline and self-control."
You'll be amazed at how just little by
little things will begin to change.
Because really, once your mind is
renewed, honey, it's all over but the
shouting. Because once you believe you
can do what God says you can do, then
you will start doing it.
>> So, I wrote this book a long time ago
called The Secret Power of Speaking
God's Word out loud. Anybody got this
little purple book? All right, man. This
thing's little enough you can carry it
around in your glove box or if you're a
woman in your purse or or whatever and
this is scriptures that you can confess
out loud that are all broken up into
categories for you. Let's just say
you're at work and you get really mad at
somebody.
Help me, God. Help me. Help me. Help me.
Help me. Quick, get your purple book.
Go to the section on anger.
Start confessing these scriptures out
loud. I'm quick to forgive. Ah, I will
bridle my anger.
I will cool my pipes.
That's the message Bible of Psalm 87.
[music] It's all done in first person
confessions. I've done your homework for
you. The least you can do is get the
book and read it.
Many years ago, I read a book about the
power of the words that I spoke and it
changed my life. And it was also my
introduction to Joyce Meyer. I learned
how important it is to line up our words
with what God's word says about us. The
great news is we don't have to fall into
negative patterns [music] of speaking
words that sabotage our lives. We can
learn to speak with hope, with love, and
God's [music] lifegiving promises over
ourselves and over others around us. The
Bible clearly says this, [music] and
that is exactly what Joyce has been
sharing with us. And it's only an
introduction to [music] this topic. She
covers even more in her groundbreaking
best-seller, Change Your Words, Change
[music] Your Life. What I love about
Joyce and her approach to the word and
how she uses scripture in her life is
that she makes it understandable. I love
Joyce Meyer so much because I feel like
she's just real. She's like she's like
your mother. She's like your friend.
Like she's just very down to earth.
>> Joyce has helped me see how my words
impact my life by showing me that the
things that we say are the things that a
lot of times we believe. She shows you
how to [music] study the Bible, how to
take God's word and apply it to your
life in [music] a very practical
everyday situation. And she'll even say
this that you can find the answer in
God's word to any problem you are
facing.
>> In change your words, change your life.
Joyce showed me that regardless of what
my current state is, [music] everything
can be changed if I embrace new words.
So today, all you need to do to get this
lifechanging [music] message is to
decide what it's worth to you. That's
right. For your gift of any amount,
we'll send you the book, Change Your
Words, [music] Change Your Life, along
with The Secret Power of Speaking God's
Word, the little purple book that
[music] Joyce talked about and read from
just a few minutes ago. It is filled
with scripture and arranged by topic so
you can easily apply God's word to
whatever situation you're [music]
facing. And when you get these great
books, we'll even pay for your shipping
and handling. It's our gift to you
[music] and thanks for your gift of any
amount. Call the number on your screen
or go to the website and simply request
the [music] Speaking God's Word package
for any amount. Or you can ask about the
Your Words Have Power study package for
your gift of $75 [music]
or more, which includes all of these
wonderful resources, plus the Everyday
Life Bible. The combination of the
Amplified Text and [music] Joyce's
extensive personal notes and commentary
make this one of the most comprehensive
and easy to understand Bibles you
[music] will find. Enjoy the opportunity
to study scripture just like Joyce was
sitting right there next to you. [music]
You'll also love that your donation will
help spread the gospel and the love of
Christ all over the world. We are so
committed to helping you experience
[music] the power of speaking God's word
over your life that we'll send you the
secret [music] power of speaking God's
word by itself for free. simply request
[music] it or you'll get it as a bonus
when you request either of the teaching
packages being offered today. Now, let's
get back to Joyce and [music] her
teaching. Just in case you
maybe are wondering if I'm right about
this
confessing the word out loud thing.
I want to take the last little bit of
time that I have here and I want to talk
to you about making a complete
turnaround today. And instead of
continuing to talk about things in your
life as if they're always going to be
the way they are right now,
don't ever say, "This is never going to
change. You're never going to change.
I'm never going to have any money. I'll
never own a new car."
Don't say that kind of stuff. Say what
God says.
If you think
that what I'm saying is you're not
you're just not sure that it's
scriptural,
I want us to look at Ezekiel 37, the
first 10 verses.
You can argue with me, but you can't
argue with the word. Not if you're
smart.
>> Ezekiel the prophet, the hand of the
Lord was upon me, and he brought me out
in the spirit of the Lord and set me
down in the midst of the valley, and it
was full of bones.
And he caused me to pass round about
among them, and behold, there were very
many human bones in the open valley or
plain, and behold, they were very dry.
Maybe there's somebody here today, and
you feel like your life at this point is
nothing but a bunch of dead, dry bones.
And he said to me, "Son of man, can
these bones live?"
And I answered, "Oh Lord God, you know,
>> you're the only one that knows."
And then again, verse four, he said to
me, "Prophesy to these bones and say to
them,
"Oh, you dry bones, hear the word of the
Lord."
Come on.
Oh, you dead dry bones. You miserable
wretched life.
You empty bank account.
Hear the word of the Lord.
>> You got to love it.
Thus says the Lord God to these bones.
Behold, I will cause breath and spirit
to enter you and you shall live.
>> In other words, you can look at any
circumstance in your life and you can
say you will change.
You will change because God is greater
than you are
and his word is greater than you are.
And I will lay senue upon you, and I
will bring flesh upon you, and cover you
with skin, and I will put breath and
spirit in you, and you dry bones shall
live, and you shall know, understand,
and realize that I am the Lord, the
sovereign ruler, who calls forth loyalty
and obedient service. So I prophesied as
I was commanded.
And as I prophesied, there was a
thundering noise, and behold, a shaking
and a trembling, and a rattling, and the
bones came together, bone to its bone.
And I looked and behold there were senus
upon the bones and flesh came upon them
and skin covered them but there was no
breath or spirit in them.
So he didn't just quit and say oh well
it almost worked.
Something happened but
still no life.
Then God said to him,
"Prophesy to the breath and the spirit,
son of man, and say to the breath and
the spirit, thus says the Lord, come
from the four winds, oh breath and
spirit, and breathe upon these slain,
that they may live." So I prophesied as
he commanded me. And the breath and the
spirit came into the bones, and they
lived and stood upon their feet, an
exceedingly great and a mighty host.
I started out 42 years ago
with a notebook and a Bible
and I wrote down 65 things that God's
word says were mine through the blood of
Christ.
Not one of them
was a fact in my life at the time, but
it was the truth of God's word.
>> I hope in some way, shape, or form, God
is using these words of mine
to speak a word to you that is so clear.
No matter what the facts are in your
life, God's word is greater than those
facts.
Do you hear me?
>> Nobody has got so many dead, dry bones
in their life,
>> that things can't change.
>> But you're going to have to get this a
truth in your life. And you keep it up
and you keep it up and you keep it up
and you keep it up until the devil shuts
up.
Amen.
And when I realized what Satan had
stolen from me and I got determined that
I was going to take it back, that I was
going to learn how to enjoy my life,
not just breathe every day, but actually
enjoy my life. Even if my circumstances
weren't great, I could still enjoy my
life. And you know, one of the ways you
start, you have to start by enjoying
yourself.
That's why you can't be against yourself
and downgrading yourself all the time.
You know, if you don't like yourself,
you're in trouble because everywhere you
go, you're there. You cannot get away
from you, not even to go to the
bathroom.
And I can remember still I can still see
myself
going through my house and when the
enemy would torment me, I remember
saying out loud, I will enjoy my life.
Jesus came that we might have and enjoy
our lives. John 10:10. The word says, I
can enjoy my life and I will enjoy my
life.
YOU KNOW WHAT? IF YOU DON'T FIGHT FOR
YOU, NOBODY ELSE is going to.
Whatever you see in the word of God
that's yours because Jesus died for you.
>> You make a decision that you're going to
have it. You're not going to give up on
it. Because if anybody can be blessed,
you can be blessed.
One last scripture. Jeremiah 15-7.
Before I formed you in the womb, I knew
and approved of you as my chosen
instrument.
And before you were born, I separated
and set you apart, consecrating you, and
I appointed you as a prophet to the
nations. And then sigh I, ah, Lord God,
behold, I cannot speak, for I'm only a
youth. And the Lord said to me, "Say
not,
I am only a youth." In other words, God
had a great plan for his life.
And he was about to kill that plan with
negative words. And God said, "Don't say
that.
Say what God says.
Don't say what other people say.
Don't say what the devil says."
Most of the time you can't even afford
to say what you think.
>> Well, I think. Well, I think. No. What
does God think? What does he say? God
says, "You're loved. You're special.
You're accepted. You're anointed. You're
powerful. You've got a great future.
Come on.
Let me tell you something. You get your
mouth in agreement with God."
And I'm not talking about this is not
like some carnal name it, claim it
message. You just say whatever you want
and it'll it'll happen. But I want to
tell you something. Words have power in
the [music] spiritual realm.
>> This message from Joyce Meyer is just an
excerpt from one of her most popular
teachings [music]
on the power of words. She delves so
much deeper into the subject in her
book, Change Your Words, Change Your
Life. You have heard Joyce share just a
fraction of the message here, but there
is so much more available [music] to
you.
>> Anybody that's watched Joyce for any
kind of length of time or listen to her
understands that she's very easy to
connect to. Why? It's because her real
life journey. I can take the things that
she [music] said and I can make it real
and applicable in my own life. When I
read Joyce's [music]
book, Change Your Words, Change Your
Life, she talks genuinely about [music]
how the things that we say, the things
that we speak, whether they're positive
or they're negative, they will
positively or negatively affect our
lives. Okay, I'll be the first to admit
I have struggled with my mouth. But when
you get into alignment with what God's
word says about you, the [music]
transformation can be amazing. No matter
what circumstances you face, [music]
with God's help, they can all be
overcome when you apply the truth of his
word. And [music] those principles are
found in Joyce's book, Change Your
Words, Change Your Life. Now, we only
have a few more minutes, so I want to
encourage you to do something vitally
important for yourself [music] and your
future. Make a call or click today and
give a donation of any amount and we'll
[music] send you Joyce's book along with
a powerful little purple book that
everybody loves, The Secret [music]
Power of Speaking God's Word. We'll even
pay the shipping and handling. Or you
can take it a step further and request
the Your Words [music] Have Power study
package complete with everything you see
here for just $75, [music] including the
Everyday Life Bible. This Bible features
Joyce's extensive personal notes and
[music] commentary. Enjoy the
opportunity to study scripture just like
Joyce were sitting right there next to
you. And [music] it's everything you
need to begin to change your words and
change your life. We are so committed to
helping you experience the [music] power
of speaking God's word over your life
that we'll send you the secret power of
speaking God's word by itself for free.
Simply request it or you'll get it as a
bonus when you request either of the
teaching [music] packages being offered
today. And remember, your donation will
also help share the love of Christ
around the world through word and
action. This is an opportunity you
[music] don't want to miss. Well, thank
you so much for joining us for this
special presentation. I hope you'll use
some of the [music] keys that I've
shared today. And remember, no matter
what the facts seem to be in your life,
God's [music] word is greater than those
facts. Be sure to watch our Enjoying
Everyday Life television program each
day. You can go to joycemeyer.org to
find out what time our program airs in
your area. God bless you and thank you
again for joining us.
We are so grateful to our [music] Joyce
Meyer Ministries partners who make this
and all we do possible, including
sharing [music] God's word and offering
help to people in need all over the
world. [music] This program has been
made possible by the partners of Joyce
Meyer Ministries.
This program is paid for by people like
you, the partners of Joyce Meyer
Ministries.
>> Angels hearken to the word of God. The
more you speak the word of God out of
your mouth, the more powerful you're
going to become.
Well, I'm going to feel stupid walking
around talking to myself.
>> Oh, you talk to yourself anyway. you
might as well start saying something
that makes sense.
>> I'm Joyce [music] Meyer and I believe
that God can heal you everywhere you
hurt.
I'm so glad you've joined us because
today we are going to be talking [music]
about possibly the most important part
of a victorious walk with Christ. I'm
talking about winning the battlefield of
the mind. If you suffer from negative
thoughts, take heart. Today we're going
to share some powerful keys to help you
[music] take back your mind and live in
complete