Let your time and your schedule and everything about you revolve around this that you and I are  to develop and continue to develop this  ongoing, intimate, wonderful, exciting, satisfying, indescribable, incomparable relationship with a personal God male announcer: In Touch, the teaching ministry of Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on "In Touch," "The Obstacle." Dr. Charles Stanley: As a believer, which sin do you believe or do you feel would be the most difficult to detect? Which one would be the hardest to confess? Which one does God hate the most? And which one is the very opposite of humility? If you think about different kinds of sin and different aspects of sin, it's very evident what the answer to that is, and that is pride. Because it is very difficult to detect in ourselves, not in other people, of course, but in ourselves. Very, very difficult to confess, "God, I'm ashamed but I'm prideful." Confessing pride and greed are two sins that you don't hear much about as far as confession's concerned. And certainly, it's the one that God hates. It's the absolutely opposite of humility. And of course, it's the root cause of all other sins. Well, this is the second message in our series on "Humility In the Life of the Believer." And I want you to turn, if you will, to the book of First Peter. First Peter chapter five, and I want us to read a few verses here. The title of this message is "Humility, The Obstacle." The obstacle to our humility is certainly pride. And Peter is writing to those who have been scattered abroad and he is warning them against dangers that are coming. He realizes that it is coming and he's trying to prepare them for that oncoming danger, and so he's warning them and encouraging them, admonishing them to be humble, to be watchful and to be hopeful. And it's that first one that I want us to notice, beginning in verse one of chapter five. His first part is to the pastors, and he says, "Therefore, I exhort the elders among you, as your fellow-elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God; and not for sordid gain, but with eagerness; nor yet as lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. And when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory." Then he says in verse five, "You younger men, likewise, be subject to your elders;" and what he's referring to there primarily is to those more mature saints, "and all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, for GOD IS OPPOSED TO THE PROUD, BUT HE GIVES GRACE TO THE HUMBLE. Therefore Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you at the proper time, casting all your," cares, "your anxieties on Him, because He cares for you." So here is a word of admonition to all of us because all of us have probably, at times, have to deal with this whole issue with humility. And the greatest obstacle of that is our pride. Now, as we've said before, as we think about what humility is, it is a very healthy, godly sense of one's self, and that is, one, the Bible talks about being lowly of mind. That is, as far as our merits and our life is concerned, not seeing ourselves above other people or critical of them. While on the other hand, pride is something entirely different. The very word "pride" means "to lift one's self up above others." It includes arrogance and a sense of superiority the--a person can have of other people. And oftentimes people can be prideful and never even realize it. And we can be prideful about lots of things. A person can be prideful about their possessions, about their appearance, about their particular position in life, whatever it might be, about their relationships. A person can be prideful, arrogant, haughty, lifting themselves above others, seeing themselves as superior to other people, and oftentimes making themselves very obnoxious. But the deceitfulness of it is this: that a person can be prideful and lots of other people recognize it but they don't. And even more deceitful is this: that a person can be prideful on the inside, cover it rather well before everybody but God. And yet, when you begin to understand what God says about pride, what an absolute hundred and eighty degrees it is from humility, absolutely, totally it is from the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I do not want pride in our lives because all it can be is a hindrance to us. And so I want us to see what He says in His Word. If you'll notice in this passage, he says that God is opposed to the proud, but He gives grace to the humble. "Therefore, humble yourselves," he says, "under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time." That is, whenever He chooses when He's ready to exalt you. Well, where did it all come from? Well, if you go back, for example, to the fourteenth chapter of Isaiah, and let's look at the origin of it for a moment, this sounds like the devil. This sounds like Satan, because all pride ultimately originated with him, and listen to what the scripture says in verse thirteen of Isaiah chapter fourteen, and I want you to notice how many times "I" is in this passage of scripture. Because "I" is the number one letter in the alphabet, the most important letter in the alphabet, for a person who is prideful. The other words are me and myself. Listen to this, verse thirteen, "But you said in your heart, 'I will ascend to heaven; I will raise my throne above the stars of God, and I will sit on the mount of the assembly in the recesses of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High God.'" Doesn't that sound like something that Satan would say because that is exactly what got him thrown out of heaven. And the Bible says that he was tossed out. And as a result, for example, he absolutely messed up this world because from his sin and the sin of Adam and Eve, all of us have suffered every day since then. And when you come to that third chapter of the book of Genesis and you notice what, for example, Satan said to Eve in tempting her, notice what he said in the fifth verse. He says, "For God knows that in the day that you eat from it," that is, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, "your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil." That is, desiring to be like God, desiring to be equal with God, desiring to know what God knows, desiring more than God intended for her to know. Because He said, "Of all the trees in the garden you can eat of it but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you must not. The day that you do it, I will--you will die." And so all pride, all rebellion, two traveling companions. When a person is rebellious, it's because there's a prideful streak in their life. Pride always leads to rebellion because pride says, "I know that's what God says but I'm gonna do it my way. I know that's what He thinks but I think there's a better way. I know that's His timing but not--my timing is now." Pride always results in rebellion. And this is why, when you look at the scripture and find out what God thinks about pride, it's very evident what He says about it because He knows how destructive it is in a person's life. For example, a person is really saying by being prideful, "I know better than God." And you'll recall if you move over just back from First Peter to First John for a moment, and or--over to First John, and look, if you will, in that second chapter and to the sixteenth verse. The scripture says, beginning in verse fifteen, "Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him." When he talks about the world, he's talking about the world's system. He's not talking about not loving and appreciating God's creation and loving other people, but the world's system. That is, that philosophy behind the world which says, "Indulge yourself, satisfy yourself at all costs. Don't think about the future, live today, eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow you may die." He says that's not of God. Look at this, "For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes and the bride--" listen, "the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world." So, we ask ourselves the question: What is God's opinion about it? Because it's very evident here that it doesn't fit who we are. See, pride doesn't fit the life of the believer. It is natural and normal for a person without Christ to be very prideful in their life, boasting about what they can do, boasting about what they have, been-- boasting of who they are, boasting of what they have, boasting of their relationships. That's the way the world thinks. Why not? Because they're not trusting God. They're not relying upon Him, believing in Him, putting their faith in Him. All they have is themselves. So the question is: What is God's attitude about pride? All of us are subject to it. We're coming to that in a few moments. All of us are subject to it. It is very cunning, very deceitful. It can have its roots so deep that it cannot be identified at first, but sooner or later, it's going to come out. What is God--Almighty God's attitude toward pride? Well, I want you to follow these scriptures, if you will, and let's turn, first of all, to Proverbs chapter six. Back to Proverbs, and we'll stay there for a few moments. Proverbs chapter six. This is God's attitude about what He says in His Word concerning this issue of pride. And here's what he says. He says in verse sixteen, look at it, if you will, chapter six, verse sixteen, "There are six things which the LORD hates," he says, in fact there are seven of them, "which are an abomination to Him." Now, if anything's an abomination to God, it is absolutely repulsive. That is, God hates anything that is an abomination. It's something that He despises, it's repulsive to Him. What is He--what's this first sin He mentions? Haughty eyes. A prideful look, God says, is something that He absolutely hates. Now, when you think about what God hates and why He hates it, why would He hate pride? Because pride says, "I don't need God." And so, we ask ourselves the question: Well, if He hates pride, does He hate the person who is proud? No, He does not. When he says He hates pride, that doesn't mean that He hates the person who is prideful. God loves all of us, but He also knows what is destructive to us. Look, if you will, in the eighth chapter of Proverbs. And look, if you will, in verse thirteen. The eighth chapter and verse thirteen. Again, he's expressing what He thinks about it, and what He thinks about it is right for the simple reason He knows its destructive power in our lives. Listen to verse thirteen, "The fear of the LORD is to hate evil; pride and arrogance and the evil way, and the perverted mouth, I hate." Now, when He says the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. That is, if a person genuinely reverences God, acknowledges who He is, submissive to who He is, we will hate evil. We will hate the things that God opposes. We will hate the things that destroy ourselves. We will hate those things that destroy God's people and destroy others. And so, He says, listen, "The fear of the Lord," that is, when we reverence God, we will "hate evil; pride and arrogance and the evil way and the perverted mouth," God says, "I hate." It doesn't fit who we are. So, when you think in your own life, well, is there any pride in my life? Is there something here that maybe I've not identified? Or is there something going on in my life I'm not aware of? If it's prideful, God says He hates it. Proverbs sixteen again, He says it's an abomination. And remember we said a few moments ago, that's something that is absolutely repulsive to God. Look what he says. The sixteenth chapter. He says in verse five, "Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD; assuredly, he will not be unpunished." Now, that is a very clear, concise statement. He says it's an abomination. It's repulsive and offensive to God. Because if you'll think about it, He desires that you and I be dependent upon Him. That's one of the reasons He sent the Holy Spirit, to enable you and me to become the persons He wants us to be, do the things that God wants us to do in life. And therefore, knowing that we cannot within our own strength, He sent the Holy Spirit to be our helper. But the prideful person says, "You know, I can do it without God. I don't need God, I don't need anybody. I'll handle it no matter what." He says the very idea is extremely repulsive to Him, and certainly obnoxious to His ways because they don't fit His plan for us, His will for us, His purpose for our life. None of these things fit. Now, look in this fifth verse of the fifth chapter of First Peter. "You younger men, likewise, be subject to your elders and all the--and all of you, clothe yourselves," he says, "with humility toward one another. For God is opposed to the proud but gives grace to the humble." He not only hates it, he says it is an abomination to Him and he says He is in opposition to it. Now, when he uses the word here "resist" or he's against it, it is the word used in the military "to array their battle line ready for battle," ready to go to battle. He says God has arrayed His battle line against the prideful. That is, when a person begins to think prideful and act prideful, God--they are in opposition to God. He said He opposes the proud. He doesn't say, "I oppose just the unbelieving prideful." He says, "I oppose pride. I oppose the proud." That is, whatever's going on, I'm gonna show you in a few moments, God will not allow it to go on long. Somebody says, "Well, I know a few proud-- prideful people in life, and they seem to be getting by." No, it just may look that way. But He says it's an abomination to Him. He hates it and He says He's absolutely opposed to it. Now, those who are humble, the Bible says, we humble ourselves before Him and we fear Him. He says, "The angel of the Lord encamps round about those who fear Him, who reverence Him, who have a humble spirit." But He, listen, He encamps in opposition to those who are prideful and acting out of pride, or who have a prideful spirit. So, there's no way to--listen, there's no way to be humbly proud. There's no way to be pridefully humble. There is a counterfeit humility which is absolutely false humility. And I'm not judging anyone else, but I'm sure all of us have probably seen people that came on so humble. Next thing you know, you see this big streak of pride shooting out from them, you think, now, which one is the right person? There's no such thing as a prideful humility or a humble pridefulness. Humility and pride are on opposite ends of God's spiritual pole for every single one of us, and pridefulness doesn't fit who we are. Because it is a total opposite of all that Jesus was and all that He is. Look at His life, look at His ministry, look at what He taught, and how He operated among His disciples was always in the spirit of humility. Obnoxious to Him, an abomination to Him. He hates it, He says He's absolutely in opposition against it. It's the last thing you want in your life. Well, if that be true, then how do we deal with it? That's the issue. If we just said, "All right, sermon's over," you just walk away sorta frustrated because all of us have to deal with this. So what I want to talk about is how to deal with it. That is, how do we deal with this whole issue of pride? Well, first of all, let me say that I want you to notice what this passage says and what it doesn't say. Look, if you will, in this fifth verse, now, First Peter, "You younger men, likewise, be subject to your elders; and all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, for GOD IS OPPOSED TO THE PROUD, BUT HE GIVES GRACE TO THE HUMBLE." Then he says in verse six, "Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you at the proper time." Now, let me talk about how you do not become humble. And nobody is an expert on humility. And nobody is any perfect example of humility. But listen to what he says. He says, "Humble yourselves." That doesn't mean read the Bible and get humble. It doesn't mean pray and get humble. It doesn't even mean confess and get humble or repent and get humble. He doesn't say that He's gonna humble you, He says, "Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God," recognizing His sovereignty and He has all power. He says, "Humble yourself." Begin to see yourself as the lowly person you are in the presence of a Sovereign, Almighty God who has power to do and knows all things. He says, "You humble yourself." And so the issue is then how do we humble ourselves if it's our responsibility? Well, first of all, let's put it this way. You've got to be willing to detect what the pride is if there's pride in your life. You have to be able to detect it, which means you've got to be willing to look at yourself openly and honestly and freely to say, "Lord, I really and truly want You to show me any and all evidence of pride in my life," whether it's pride about my possessions, pride about my appearance, pride about my relationships, pride about my position, pride about--whatever it is, God, I want You to show me what it is. Now, showing me what it is doesn't get rid of it. It's like a person becoming aware of their sin, say, "Well, now, I know what's wrong." Well, what are you gonna do about it? Knowing what's wrong is not enough. Humble yourselves. So, first of all, you have to detect what it is. Now, watch this next step. One of the wisest things you can do is--this may be a little dangerous. In fact, just doing this is rather humbling, hm, hm, hm--is to say to one of your very dearest friends whom you can trust, "If you see any pride in me, or where you see any pride within me, I want you to show me. I want you to tell me." Now, if you can't handle it, you better not do that. I have three friends with whom I talk often, and I've said to them many times, "Always tell me the truth. Do not refrain from telling me the truth. I want you to tell me the truth. What you see in me that's not right, or you see me heading in the wrong direction or doing the wrong thing, or pride that slips into my life, or arrogance, I want you to confront me. You're my friend. If you don't confront me, and you don't tell me, if you see something I've not seen, then you're not my friend." Now, because here's what's gonna happen. Most of your friends are gonna say, Oh, I--you know, who am I to tell you?" Because, and you know why they tell you that? Because they don't want your disfavor, and they don't want your rejection. And they'd rather lie to you than have your rejection. Say, "Well, I don't see a thing." Get on the phone, "You know what so and so did? Let me tell you how arrogant and prideful he or she is." That's not friendship. Genuine friendship, tell it like it is. In a loving spirit, in a non-confronting way, because when you tell somebody that they have a streak of pride or they're prideful about something, that's a little tough for them to understand. I mean, that's a little difficult for some people. Because here's what they do. Now, watch this. And I'm saying this because I want to help you understand if somebody says that to you in the gentle spirit, they're not accusing you. They're not condemning you. They're not rejecting you. They're not trying to demean you or diminish your sense of self-esteem. They're trying to help you. Now, if your response is, "Well, you know what? I see some of that in you." Conversation's over. Conversation's over. You didn't say to them, "Show me if you see pride in me, but if you do, you better watch out because I'm gonna tell you what I've seen." That's not what it's all about. It's being willing to be open and transparent and say, "You know what? I know I've got my own frailties, and I'm sure there's some of this junk in me and--but you asked me to help you, and so I want to help you. And so, here's what I see, and I want to pray with you and I--any way I can help you. And I'm not being accused, I'm not rejecting you. This doesn't mean our friendship is over. You asked me, and so I want to tell you. Now, if you can handle that, you've already come a long ways. If you can't handle it, you've already-- if you can't handle it, you've already got a streak of pride. If you can't handle it, you need it. In other words, one of the evidences that you need it is you can't handle it. Now, I want to say one last thing. Suppose you do all of that and it doesn't work. I've got one more solution. Turn to Second Corinthians, if you will. Second Corinthians. Look, if you will, in chapter twelve. Listen to what he says. There are times when God will allow or send into our life difficulty, hardship, pain, suffering, things we don't understand, things we can't fix, things we can't change in order, listen, in order to protect us from becoming prideful. Now, listen carefully. Are you listening? Say amen. The more gifted and the more talented and the more skilled and the more successful you are, the more you have to watch out about pride. And so, because God knows our hearts and He knows we want to do the right thing, He is in the protecting business. Look at Second Corinthians chapter twelve and, listen, Paul said in verse seven, "Because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations," that God had given him about Himself, "to keep me from exalting myself," becoming prideful, to keep me from exalting myself, becoming arrogant, "there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me--to keep me from exalting myself! Concerning this I implored the Lord three times that He might take it away or it would leave me. He has said to me, 'My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness.' Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me." What was he saying? He's saying God has shown me why He's allowed this in my life, to keep me from becoming prideful and arrogant and superior because of the awesome revelations. God spoke to Paul in a way He never spoke to any other person other than His own Son, Jesus Christ. And Paul said, "What I know would make any person arrogant and prideful." He'd be wanting to, he would be wanting to oversee and with his superiority of spiritual insight, he said, "God knew what--He knew from my background how I would respond, and therefore what He do--what did He do? He sent me enough pain, enough heartache, and enough suffering to protect me from becoming prideful." Either we have to deal with it, which we can, or there are times when, if God has something for you to do or whatever it might be, that He absolutely is not gonna tolerate it. That He knows exactly how much pain, how much suffering, how much hurt, what manner and what form in which to send it in order to protect us, in order that He can accomplish His perfect plan, His will for our life. And so, I just want to encourage you to recognize that pride is not only destructive, it is dangerous. It doesn't fit who we are as believers. God doesn't want it in our life. It's a hindrance to everything He has prepared for us. And if you and I are willing to deal with it, He'll give us a spirit of humility as we respond to our absolute, total submission to His will and His purpose for our life. And Father, we're thanking You and praising You today that You love us enough to point out to us those things in life that do not fit, those things that either hinge on pride or are an evidence of pride. I pray the Holy Spirit would speak to every single person to recognize their failure to accept Jesus Christ as their Savior is an act of pride, and that they would deal with that in these very moments that follow. And Lord, that You would search all of our hearts, that we would continually be watchful lest it creep into our lives and ruin us for Jesus's sake, amen. ♪♪♪