What is a Christian couple allowed to do in sex? | GotQuestions.org

LightDark

Bible VersionESVCSBKJVNASBNIVNKJVNLT
Font FamilyDefaultArialVerdanaHelveticaTahomaGeorgiaTimes New Roman
Line HeightDefault1.01.21.52
Font SizeDefault1.01.21.52

Facebook
X
Pinterest
Email
Text/SMS

Find Out
How to go to heaven
How to get right with God

Random

Subscribe

Home  Content Index  Relationships  Marital Unity  Sexually allowed

Question

What is a Christian couple allowed to do in sex?

Answer
The Bible says that "marriage should be honored by all, and the marriage bed kept pure, for God will judge the adulterer and all the sexually immoral" (Hebrews 13:4). Scripture never says what a husband and wife are or are not allowed to do sexually, so how can we know if something is sexually permissible between a husband and wife? The Bible gives us general principles regarding sex within marriage:

1. Sex is to be God-honoring — Our bodies are meant to glorify the Lord, not to be controlled by our passions and not to be used for sexual immorality (1 Corinthians 6:12–13). "Therefore honor God with your bodies" (1 Corinthians 6:20).
2. Sex is to be exclusive — Sex is between a husband and wife only (1 Corinthians 7:2).
3. Sex is to be loving and other-oriented — First Corinthians 7:3–4 instructs, "The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body but yields it to her husband. In the same way, the husband does not have authority over his own body but yields it to his wife." Each spouse lovingly yields his or her body to the other.
4. Marital sex happens regularly — "Do not deprive each other except perhaps by mutual consent and for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. Then come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control" (1 Corinthians 7:5).
5. Marital sex unifies — Sexual intimacy unites a husband and wife (1 Corinthians 7:5) and solidifies the becoming "one flesh" aspect of marriage, not just physically but emotionally, intellectually, spiritually, and in every other way.
If the sexual act in question satisfies these principles, and both the husband and wife are agreeable to loving each other in that way, there is no biblical case for declaring it to be a sin. The principle of "mutual consent" applies to abstaining from sex (1 Corinthians 7:5) and to whatever is done sexually within a marriage. Neither spouse should be coerced into doing something he or she is not completely comfortable with or thinks is wrong. If a husband and wife both agree that they want to try something (e.g., oral sex, different positions, sex toys, etc.), then the Bible does not give any reason why they cannot.
There are a few things, though, that are never allowable for a married couple. The practice of "swapping," "swinging," or "bringing in an extra" (threesomes, foursomes, etc.) is adultery (Galatians 5:19; Ephesians 5:3; Colossians 3:5; 1 Thessalonians 4:3). Adultery is sin even if one's spouse allows, approves, or even participates in it. Viewing pornography is another practice that should be off-limits for a married couple. Porn appeals to the "lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes" (1 John 2:16) and is therefore condemned by God.
Scripture provides great freedom in the bedroom for a husband and wife. As long as a married couple's sexual practices are God-honoring, exclusive, loving, other-oriented, unifying, and mutually agreed upon, they carry God's blessing.

For Further Study
Intended for Pleasure: Sex Technique and Sexual Fulfillment in Christian Marriage by Ed & Gaye Wheat
The Quest Study Bible: Answers to Thousands of Your Questions About the Bible

Related Articles
What does the Bible say about an open marriage? Does the Bible address polyamory/swinging?
What does the Bible say about oral sex?
What does it mean that the marriage bed is undefiled (Hebrews 13:4)?
What does the Bible say about anal sex? What is sodomy according to the Bible?
What does the Bible say about sex in marriage / marital sex?

Related GQM Resources
Compelling Truth
What is/isn't a Christian married couple allowed to do, sexually?

Return to:
Questions about Marriage
What is a Christian couple allowed to do in sex?

Subscribe to the
Question of the Week
Get our Question of the Week delivered right to your inbox!

This page last updated: January 21, 2026
