John 14:21 says, "The one who loves me, I will disclose myself to him." You want to experience more of him, love him first. He says, "I will unveil myself." That's the paradise of God. That's where God unveils himself and lets you see stuff you've never seen before. Experience things you've never experienced before, cuz he's unveiled himself.

[Music]
[Applause]

A college professor one day wanted to teach his students about priorities. And so what he did was he got a jar and he poured in it a lot of pebbles and stones. The stones began to fill up the jar. And then he had one rock, one big rock to go into the jar. The problem occurred, however, that the rock could not get into the jar because too many stones had already filled it up. Although the stones were smaller than the rock, there was so many of them that there was no room left for the big rock because too many stones had occupied the space. He then emptied the jar and put the rock in first, then pour it in the stones to discover now that if you put the big rock in first, You still have room for the stones to fill in around the rock, but you don't lose the big because you got so many little things occupying the space. What he was teaching them is you always take care of the big thing first and then you'll have room for the little things.

But if you fill your life up with too many little things so that the big thing can't get in it, then you wind up losing the major thing that you need. God is the big thing. Everything else in your life is a stone compared to the rock.

The problem is our lives are filled with so many stones that when it comes time time for God, there's just no room left. We filled it up with work and play and activity and relationships and television and and athletics and all of these stones, legitimate stones. But then we wind up too tired for a rock, too busy for a rock, too distracted for a rock, and then we get upset when the rock's not working, when there was no place for the rock to be.

We're going to talk to you over the next number of weeks about repositioning God in our lives and moving him from whatever location he happens to be in to first. If you get this concept of the repositioning of God in your life, I can assure you there will be a fresh experience with God in your life. Over and over again in scripture, God requires and demands to be first. One such place for which many of you are familiar is in Revelation chapter 2. where John the Revelator writes about a message to the church at Ephesus. To understand Ephesus, think New York. Ephesus was the New York City of Asia Minor. In the middle of this metropolitan city, a church was established. Ephesus Bible Fellowship had been established in this city. And the Lord sends a letter to the pastor at Ephesus Bible Fellowship called the angel or the messenger. And he was to deliver that message to the congregation.

I'm going to deliver the message that he gave to them to us since it was written for the church. In Ephesians 2, we read to the angel of the church in Ephesus, right? The one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands says this. Of course, seven is the number of completion in scripture. So, what he wants you to know starting out is Jesus is in the house right now. He starts out with a commendation or a compliment. He wants to compliment the church first. He says in verse two, "I know your deeds, your toil, your perseverance. You cannot endure evil men. You put to the test those who call themselves apostles and they are not and you found them to be false. He says I want to commend you on some great things happening at your church. He says the first thing is I see your deeds. Deeds are activities. I see the work you're doing. In other words, you are a serving church. You folks are busy. You got folks serving over here and folks serving over there and folks doing this and folks doing that. You you've got the people engaged in ministry and I see your deeds. He says you're not only a serving church, you are a sacrificing church because he says I see your toil. Toil means to labor to the point of exhaustion or to break a sweat. So you folks are not just working and doing kingdom stuff. you working hard and you're sweating. You're you're putting in extra time and extra effort cuz I see not only your deeds, I see your toil. I see the the extra stuff you putting in over there at the church house. And and I just want you to know I see that. He goes on to say, I see your steadfastness because I see your perseverance. When the going gets tough, you don't quit. When the going gets tough, you don't throw in the towel. When the going gets tough, you keep on plowing through and you don't easily throw in the towel, quit or give up. I see that. I I I like that about you. Not only do I see you are serving, that you are sacrificing, and that you are steadfast. I see you are also separated because you don't tolerate evil. You you will call sin a sin. You will identify folks who are who are renegades, who are who are living an unacceptable lifestyle and justifying it rather than repenting of it. I I see that there is a standard that this church operates by. And and that's great. I I commend you for that. And then finally he says,"I also see you are a suffering church because verse three, you have perseverance and have endured for my name's sake and have not grown weary endured for my name's sake. You've gone through some tough times, some hard times. You've been rejected by the culture of Ephesus and you are suffering being a Christian. I see that and and and that's good. I want to commend you for all the good things happening at this church. But but verse four, but but I have this against you. You have left your first love. He says, "I just named five compliments, five things I like, but I have one problem, and it's a biggie. You've left your first love."

Now, wait a minute. You just gave me Jesus five compliments, and you only finding one thing wrong. But think about it for a moment. You can serve God and not love him first. You can sacrifice for God and not love him first. You can be steadfast for God and not love him first. You can you can be separated in God's name and not love him first. You can be suffering in God's name and not love him first. Watch it. He didn't say you don't love me at all. He said, "You no longer love me first." In the busyiness of life and ministry, Jesus Christ no longer held the front position in their lives and in the life of this church. So you can be spiritually busy and Jesus not be happy because you've left your first love. What God is complaining about is that things have replaced his primacy in their lives so that Jesus Christ is no longer first. He has to compete with all the stones even though you declare him to be the rock. One of the bad things about religion is it can camouflage relationship so that you think you have relationship because you have religion. Because I go to church, because I serve in the ministry, because I do this, but I must I must have him first cuz look at what I'm doing.

He says, "You have left your first love. You don't love me first. You love what I can do for you. You love the blessings I can give you. You love the money you want from me, the jobs you want from me, the better lifestyle you want from me. You love what I can give you. But you don't want me and you don't want me first because you'll fit me in when you can after all your shows have gone off. You'll fit me in after you've done what you've done with your friends, after you've done what you've done with your plans and programs. If you're not too tired before you go to sleep, you'll give me 30 seconds before you nod off. you'll include me somewhere. Cuz one thing is for certain and that is you always have time for what's first. See, you may run out of time for something, but you never run out of time for something that's first because if it's first, it happens up front. If it's first, it's priority. What God is saying is, "Yes, you still love me, but you love me down the line. You love me second, third, fourth, fifth, 9th, 10th when I demand to be first." Well, God, what do you mean by that?

Well, the Lord says in Matthew chapter 10, he says in Matthew chapter 10 verse 37 and 38, he says, "Anyone who loves his mother, father, son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me." So let me tell you what he means by first. Matthew 10:37-38, he says, "I want your commitment to me to outweigh your commitment to your family. Amen. In other words, I want to be ahead. I want to come in front of your family, your mother, your father, your sisters, your brothers, your daughter, your son, your mate. I want to be first. Not not second, not third. And the reason why I want to be first is I am first. I am alpha and omega. He wants to be first. that is top priority, not relegated to a secondary position. Much that is missing in our lives is because God has been relegate. He's not been forgotten. We'll come to church. He's not been forgotten. He'll be referenced, but he's been forgotten in terms of his placement in our lives. And he demands being first.

You have left your first love. You've left me as first. You love me down the line. So after commending the Christians at Ephesus and the Christians here, where is he positioned in your life, in your schedule, in your plans, in our priorities? Do I love ministry more than him? Do I love preaching more than him? Do I love anything more than him? He wants to be first because that is where he is. Yes. He wants to cut in line. I know we don't like it when folk cut in front of us. He wants to cut in front of us. And he wants to be first because he is first.

This little word first as you're seeing today and as you will continue to discover is a transforming word yet it is simple. It's a simple word and it's a powerful word when you understand the repercussions of it. Okay. You say, "Well, I want him to be first. What do I do to get him first? Well, he tells you he tells you three things to do to reposition God in your life to make him first. Therefore, verse five, remember from where you have fallen. He says the first thing to do to reposition God is remember to recall from where you have fallen. He says, "Remember when I was priority in your life." He says, "Remember remember from where you have fallen. Remember when you were excited just to know your sins were forgiven. Remember when you were excited that that that eternal life was imparted to you and you you ain't have all this stuff, but you had me and you had fire with me and for me and about me because I was the main thing. You know how inconvenient people get when they first got fall in love? They be talking on the phone, falling asleep on the phone, but won't hang up. And they be making time for stuff they didn't have time for cuz things something else was first. First first I told you how when I used to go on vacation when the kids were small we I drive up to Baltimore and I developed this contest with myself. How far could I drive this year compared to last year to go to Baltimore? First day I did 10 hours before we stopped and rested. Second year 15 hours. Third year, 20 hours. Fourth year, 25 hours. Went all the way to Baltimore nonstop. Now, in order to achieve my goal, I had to pass rest stops along the way. But I wouldn't pull over cuz I had a goal to make. I had things to do. I had a I had a place to go. I had achievements to make. So, I wouldn't pull over. In fact, as I was driving, they would warn me. The rest stop would say, "I ain't coming up again for another 45 miles. I'm trying to tell you to pull over now, but I couldn't pull over cuz I had goals to meet. Then finally in that final year, I made it all the way to Baltimore to see my folks with the grandkids. 25 hours straight driving except to stop to to to get gas and everything. But now you have to understand when I reach my goal on our family vacation, I was good for nothing. kids. So the purpose of the trip got lost in the performance of the trip.

And what we have allowed to do is we have allowed religion to keep us from that relationship cuz we check it off. I went to church. Never mind. There's no dynamic ongoing daily prioritization of the relationship. He says, "Remember from where you have fallen." Remember. He says, "Remember from where you have fallen and repent." Repent means to reverse your course, to turn around. You're going down the highway and you discover, "I'm going the wrong way." And you say, "I'm wrong. I'm going south when I ought to be going north. I'm wrong. I'm wrong is not repentance. I'm wrong is confession. To say I'm wrong. I'm going the wrong way. You have not yet repented. What you've done is acknowledged your sin. You've acknowledged I'm going the wrong way. Confession. Repentance is getting off, crossing over, and going back. You've not repented until you've reversed. Now, there's only one thing you repent of in the Bible, and that's sin. So, guess what? Losing your first love is sin. It's not a bad habit. It's not even a mistake. God looks at you and me in spiritual rebellion when he's not first. And that explains everything. So many of God's people are living in spiritual rebellion, not because they're necessarily doing some overt popular sin. God is just no longer first. And why does God tell us to repent? The only purpose God tells us to repent is to restore relationship and limit consequences. He wants to restore relationship. That's not just I'm sorry. That's adjusting the schedule. That's deciding, yeah, I'm going to get up 15 minutes earlier so that I spend time with God or block out uh some time during the day when I'm alert and awake to give some time with God. I am going to prioritize this. I'm going to restructure this. Now, you have repented. Anything else is confession which precedes repentance but is not equal to the full definition of it. And God is calling us to repent. to repent of what? What great sin? You just complimented me five times. The sin of putting me in any other place but first that sin. Repent of that sin. Thirdly, he says, "And repeat." Because he says, "What I want you to do is I want you to do the deeds you did at first." Repeat. He says, "I want you to go back to what you did when it was just me and you." When it was just me and you. When you didn't have all these distractions and all these people and all these issues and all this agenda and all this schedule and all this business. It was just me and you. And we did fine. In fact, because it was just me and you, that's why a lot of this other stuff happened. A lot of this other stuff happened because it was just us. But now that it's no longer just us and you just fit me in where you can, no wonder you're losing your mind. No wonder prayers aren't being answered. No wonder there's no experience of my presence or no experience of my power because it's not just me and you now. I'm not first. Yes, you've got more work. Yes, you've got more responsibility. Yes, you've got kids. Yes, you've got more responsibility at work. I've got that. So, what that means is you've got to position me as first. Cuz if you ever position me as first, you will discover I can help you handle all that other stuff. I can help you with the stones if you'll keep me the rock. But, but I can't be one among many. I must be first.

And when you make him first, he says, I I I He says, I like this verse six. You hate the deeds of the nickelans. I like that. I like that you you hate folks who are in rebellion. You their deeds. You hate what they're doing. But he that hath an ear, let him hear. Okay, listen to that. He that hath an ear, let him hear. He that hath an ear, let him hear. He's talking to the whole church. But then he says, even if the rest of the church is not listening, he that hath an ear. So if nobody else is listening but you, that's enough. Even though he's talking to the church, he knows everybody doesn't have an ear to hear. There's some people here who going to say, "God, look, I'm going to give you what I give you. That's the best I'm going to give you, and you going to have to accept that." So you don't have an ear to hear. There others who don't have an ear to hear. Look, I got too much on my plate. I'm too busy. I'm too tired. I'm too stressed. So I I I this sermon is not for me. They don't have an ear to hear. But he, that's the individual that hath an ear to hear. He's not talking about your physical ear to hear what I'm saying. Everybody hears that. He's talking about your spiritual ear, the heart. That is that is he that hath to hear what the spirit is saying to the church. I'm talking to the church, but I'm looking for some listening ears in the heart who says, "You know what, God? I'm going to reorder my priorities so that you're no longer fitted in or forced in your first. That means getting up a few minutes early at 5. That means carving out uh uh taking a portion of my lunchtime. Fine. but but time when it's meaningful. I'm alert and I'm focused on you. You don't have to start with an hour. You don't have to start with two hours. You start with five minutes. Just make it real. So start somewhere. Cuz I guarantee you when you start to feel this thing, it's going to grow. When you start to feel his presence, when you start to feel his reality, when when you know that you you're not only relating to him, but he's relating back to you. You're seeing prayers answered, power given, restoration taking place. When you get to see him do his thing, oh, you going to extend your time. Some of you, some of us will never extend it cuz we'll never see it because he won't be first. But he that hath an ear, let him hear. And he closes with this. To him who overcomes, I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. H to he who hears he will overcome and I will grant to him to eat in the paradise of God. Now what was the paradise of God? It was Eden. It was where Adam and Eve were. They were in paradise. They were in Eden. In Eden was the tree of life. They got to walk with God during the cool of the day. God was talking to them and guiding them until they sinned and rebelled. Guess what he says? He says that the one who puts me first is an overcomer. Okay? Now, in order to be an overcomer, you got to have something to overcome. He says, "The one who puts me first will be an overcomer and they will eat in the paradise of God."

Let me give you a great verse. It's in John chapter 14 21 because John 14:21 says, "The one who loves me, I will disclose myself to him. The one who loves me, I will unveil himself to I will let him see me, feel me, and experience me if he loves me. You want to experience more of him, love him first." He says, "I will unveil myself." That's the paradise of God. That's where God unveils himself and lets you see stuff you've never seen before. Feel stuff you've never felt before. Experience things you've never experienced before. Cuz he's unveiled himself. But how do I know if I really love him? Oh, it's simple. He says, "Because you will choose first to please me." Says, "You'll keep my commandments. You will seek first to please me. That will be that will. And here's how you know because when you have to choose between him and something or someone else, he wins. He says, "Now you love me. And I will unveil myself to that man, that woman, that boy or girl who loves me.

[Music]