"One of the greatest weapons you have with you, the most powerful weapon that God has given you, you most of the time don't use it because you don't think spiritually. You see, your ability to laugh was not when somebody makes a joke. It was a spiritual statement to disrupt what the devil is thinking he can do to you. And Amen. That's good. Let me find somebody that is going to hear what I'm saying. Amen. If you read in the Psalms we just read it like this. He says when the enemy has risen against you, God laughs and after God laughs, their balls break. They end up stabbing themsel and they end up destroying themsel. Your problem is when the devil attacks you, you pray instead of laughing. I'm done. I think I should go to the overflow. I think it went over some of you's heads. You see your issue is you want you want let me give you an example please please. When Sarah was barren. Yes. When God answered what did Sarah say? She said the Lord has made me to laugh. The whole time she was going through pregnancy. Okay let me say it like this. God says to Abraham by this time next year I will come and your wife will be pregnant. Sarah laughed and God asked, Sarah, why did you laugh? Sarah thought the Lord was attacking her. But God was surprised. How does she know prophetically that the child will be called laughter? Are you I am talking to the wrong people. So Sarah was already laughing. You're prolonging your sit down for two seconds. I have a few minutes. You are prolonging your battles because you are taking too long to laugh. Because laughter, laughter is a prophetic sign. Laughter is a prophetic. If God does it, you have to know that it's spiritual. But every time you've read in the Bible, when God laughs, it's always because God is giving somebody victory. Amen. Amen. Amen. God has never laughed because somebody cracked a joke. It means laughter is a weapon of what? warfare. I think I should go to the overflow. I think this is for You see, many of you like to cry. You think that's what God responds to. He doesn't. If it was about tears, ah, the world would have been a better place a long time ago. God is responding to something else. Imagine when everything has turned against you. Yes. And you can stand up and see things from God's eyes. Yes. And you said, The devil really thinks I would die of cancer. Amen. The devil really thinks I will be poor. The devil really think I'll be in limitation. Doesn't he know that I'm already above and not below? Does he not know I have already overcome? Does he not know my present suffering does not compare to the glory that is to be revealed? Hallelujah. Sit down for two seconds. 2 seconds. The issue with you guys, you like to complain, mama, fast and pray. There's nothing wrong with that. I do it more more than you probably. It is good. But everything has its place. Everything has its place. That is why the Bible says there is a time to laugh. It did not say when people are happy. It did not say when things are joyful. It is strategic. You see when somebody goes on home, we cry. But the Bible says we do not cry like those who are what in the world. So even though we all cry, a believer does not cry like the world. Why do we not cry like those who are in the world? Because our tears are tears of hope. We say we will see each other again for a little while. We will not be together. Yes. Yes. But we will see each other again. But the world cries because it is over. Everything about us must be prophetic. My God. It cannot be oh yeah we are doing what everybody does. No, we are not everybody. Don't wait for somebody to You see, every act you do provokes something spiritual. Every act provokes something spiritual. There are things that you will do. Almost 99% of your actions will trigger a spiritual manifestation. Will trigger something spiritual. Whether positive or negative, it will trigger it. Every single one. You see, some of you are suffering now because of something your father or your mother did. Your children may suffer because of something or they may be blessed based on something they did. Not because they were bad people, but every act has a spiritual consequence. Listen, every act, every act. So as a child of God, as one chosen by God, anointed by God, called by God, what do you express spiritually? Psalms chapter 2 from verse 1 to 4. Teaching a great word. Thank you, Uncle JT. God bless you. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands aunder and cast away their cords from us. Verse four, he that siteth in heaven shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision, which means he shall have them mocked. God's solution to everything, every weapon. You see, when the Bible says, Every weapon fashioned against you shall not prosper. Do you know why it doesn't prosper? The moment they raise a weapon, God, they think they numbered their days. Amen. Are you getting what I'm saying? Yes. To God, it is the greatest comedy ever written. When the enemy raises a gun against you, when the enemy sets arrows against you, God laughs. The moment he loves, everything falls apart. Amen. God's solution is not anger. In fact, many times when you see the Lord angry, it's usually because his children are not really lining up. Come on, guys. Can we get it together? That's what frustrates God. His anger was only towards sin. After that, God is cool. It was never because of the devil. God is calling you to learn to be prophetic. Some things just need a very good laugh. Hallelujah. When the devil thinks your children will not succeed, you laugh. Amen. When the devil thinks he has closed your doors, you laugh. When the devil thinks he will kill you with sickness, you laugh. When the devil thinks your days are over, you laugh. Let me explain to you what being meek means. Meekness does not mean to be humble. To be meek means to be consistent. The meek shall inherit the earth. The consistent, it is not just an act of humility. Is an act of what? Consistency. Consistency. To be humble is to be lowly. To be meek is to be consistent. The consistent shall inherit the world, the earth. It doesn't say, do you know what it means to inherit? It means that everything everyone else is working for is actually yours. Amen. See that is why the scripture says the wealth of the wicked is stored up for the righteous. There is somebody laboring right now. Amen. So that you can laugh. Amen. So that you can simply imagine. Imagine the guys that owned this building before us. Yes. They were preparing it for us. Yes. They put it together. We came and took it to another level. But they were preparing it for us the whole time. Amen. truth. Choose to laugh. You see, joy is not because of circumstances. Joy is a product of revelation of what God has already established. Our joy, you see, happiness, that's why people pursue happiness. Let me tell you, you will get a new car, you'll be happy. 2 weeks later, they will bring out another one. You will not be happy with this one. You will need another one. They will say iPhone 13 is the best one. Then they tell you this one has better camera. You start hating yours, you are ready for the next one. You say, Oh my god, that is my favorite shoe. Until they design another one that is better than you. Say, Mm- because you are pursuing happiness and happiness is never satisfied because it is an external thing. This is why when somebody says, I am not happy in my marriage, it's a demonic attack. Amen. Talk about it Jesus. Some people missed it. I am just not happy anymore. No. The devil deceived you because he sent you on a goose. On a wild, what is it called? In a goose chase. Wild goose chase. Wild goose chase. Thinking you will find somebody that will give you that thing. You will get that person. You will be spiced up for one month, two months, you'll be back in the same place. Because what you're looking for is a is is a is a lust. Lust is never satisfied. Last is a black hole that keeps taking, keeps taking, keeps taking. It never is satisfied. Is it good to be happy? Yes. This is why you find that people are looking for drugs to make them happy. Then they will look for drugs again to make them happy. You see the solution is not happiness, joy. Amen. Hallelujah. This is why God the Lord our God is our what? Joy. Why is our joy in the Lord? Why is the joy of the Lord our strength? Is because we already, you see, joy is internal. It's not external. The Bible says that Jesus going on the cross, people will think that he's cursed, but his joy was that he will see his seed. The seed of joy produces laughter. Because anyone that is operating in joy has already seen the future. They are not in their present. Amen. Amen. Amen. I feel like I'm talking to myself. Anyone that is in joy has already seen the future. Yes, they already they they've already they are gone. So they are not moved by a little suffering right now. They are not moved by a little rejection right now. They actually laugh at it because they understand that what God has put in me, he has not revealed to them. You see, some of you are looking for somebody to approve of what God has deposited in you. Amen. Everyone is just fighting me because they don't get where God is taking me. When God told you, did he tell you? He would tell everybody else. God didn't tell you he's telling. God told you. It is between you and God. It was not between you, God, and everybody else. that everywhere you go. You see, it's always funny sometimes when I uh I am ministering to people and they say, Yeah, I told God, yeah, you know, I told God to show you. Ah, Christians are the best. The best. If God reveals something is because he's trying to affirm something in you, to exalt you, to strengthen your faith. Okay? Don't wait. You see, but don't wait for people to applaud you, for you to receive courage, for you to receive joy, and for you to laugh. Don't wait. Listen to me. Too good. There is something important that I learned. And the worst part of it, this is especially in the church, men don't like success. People don't enjoy to see you do good. The moment you begin to do good, they will look for a way to demonize you. I don't know if you're listening to me. Yes. This is why when God reveals something to you, he reveals it to you, not to everybody. You need to learn to be joyful and laughing when everybody thinks you should be sinking. You should be panicking. Amen. Amen. You need to just be looking at people because you understand they don't know what you know. Amen. In a little while something shall manifest and they will understand why you are behaving the way you are behaving. Why you are laughing when you should be crying. Why you are praising when you should be down. Why you should be panicking but you are worshiping. Your reaction should be contradicting everything that the devil is throwing at you. Your reaction should not be to align with what people are doing. You see the devil works like this. I have a few minutes. Let me tell you this. Stand up my son. You, this one is a bornagain Holy Ghost Christian. Hallelujah. Praise God. He actually is. But the devil wants this. If he pinches, you start, Father, in the name of Jesus, every spirit, if he comes and he does this, he's provoking you to react physically. That's good. But there are times the devil will pinch you like this. All you do is Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. When a snake beat Paul, Paul did it like a mosquito bite. Immediately even the venom expired. May you begin to laugh at your enemies. May you begin to laugh against every device of the enemy. Whatever the enemy has designed against you, may it be shifted in the name of Jesus. Amen. This is why the devil is working overtime to make sure that your voice is gone. To make sure that you're frustrated, to make sure that everything about you has collapsed because he knows. Listen, the Bible says a merry heart does better than what? Medicine. Can you believe just you laughing in God, laughing in the Holy Ghost, even your own body will begin to get healed. Woo. So the devil knows the way to kill you. Let me make sure they cannot laugh. Rise up and lift your right hand. And begin to pray. Father restore my laughter. Father restore my laughter. Father restore my laughter. Father restore my laughter. Lift up your voice and begin to pray. Father restore my laughter."