Why didn't Jesus actually write
anything? Would Lucifer be doing God a
favor by tormenting the others who are
in hell? Would L would Lucifer then not
be God's friend in that sense?
>> A student steps up with some of the
toughest questions yet. Why didn't Jesus
ever write anything himself? If God is
good, why would he create hell? And if
Satan tempts and torments, is he really
God's enemy or carrying out God's
judgment? But instead of dodging, Cliff
dives straight in defending the Bible,
the character of God, and the reality of
free will. Which was the toughest
question. Let us know and let's dive in.
>> You've been good for most of your life
and you've done a little bit of evil.
Everyone has done evil, but some, I
guess we can both admit, have done more
than others.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Say someone has led a very, very
moral life. Not a perfect life. No one
has a perfect life, but a very moral
life, but does not ask for forgiveness.
Does that little bit of evil make him
unworthy to to go to heaven? So in other
words, hell is filled with people who
are morally very good and morally very
bad, but heaven only has in other words,
it would have no one or people who've
been morally very bad in their entire
life, but very good at the very end and
ask for forgiveness.
The heart of sin is pride. And I think
it's easy to see pride in an Adolf
Hitler with his Aryan supremacy.
But when you read the gospels, you'll
notice that the type of pride that Jesus
attacked most harshly was religious
pride, the Pharisees.
And the reason that Jesus attacked
religious pride most harshly is because
religious pride blinds me to my need of
God, my need of Christ. See, when I'm
religious, I say, you know something,
Ethan, I am better than him.
And because I'm better than him,
I go to heaven, he goes to hell.
And it is that religious self-righteous
pride that blinds me to my need of God's
mercy, his help. And so that is why
Jesus reserved his most scathing words
for the religious people of his day who
always compared themselves to others,
saying, "Well, guess what? I've done
more good than you have, so I'm going to
heaven and you're going to hell." And
Jesus went after him with unscathing
warnings.
>> Well, that's back then there wasn't any
idea of hell because death was very
vague.
It's no different today. I think that
all of us in this circle had been
royally turned off by self-righteous
religious people. Be they self-righteous
Christians, self-righteous Muslims,
self-righteous Jews. Religious arrogance
is very difficult to stomach.
And what Jesus points out is we're all
sinners. That is why we are all in
desperate need of God's grace. And that
is what Christ offers us through his
death on a cross. And if I reject
Christ, what I am in essence rejecting
is God's offer of forgiveness and help.
So that leads to the second point about
hell. CS Lewis wrote a book called The
Great Divorce in which he talks about
people in hell getting on a bus and
going to heaven. They get off the bus,
they walk around heaven and they say,
"Forget this." They get back on the bus
to go back to hell. Why? Because in
heaven you have to live together with
God.
And if during this life I make a
decision, I don't want to live my life
together with God. I want to live my
life separate from God. Then God because
he respects my free will is not going to
force me to go to heaven against my will
cuz I would hate to be in heaven cuz in
heaven I got to live together with God
for eternity.
>> Okay. Question. Do you need to ask God
for forgiveness or Jesus?
>> They're one and the same according to
Christ.
>> Okay. Then uh so you have to believe in
Jesus as your Lord and Savior and the
Messiah in order to go to heaven.
>> Correct.
>> Then how does that make sense if you're
only asking forgiveness from God? If you
if you don't believe in Jesus, if you're
a Jew or a Muslim, a Muslim who believes
in Jesus as a prophet and Jews who don't
even believe in Jesus as anything other
than a historical figure if you ask for
forgiveness from God, doesn't that isn't
that the same thing then? Do you have to
be a Christian in order to go to heaven?
Okay, you see that what that does is
that drives you back to the fundamental
question. How do you know who God is?
Now, Jesus claimed to be the real true
living God, opening up and revealing
himself for who he really is.
>> But why did he only reveal himself to
only a fraction of people in the middle
of the Mediterranean? If he if he truly
was God, wouldn't he have you know
exposed himself to everyone to every
culture at every point in time? If he is
God and he is infinite and he is
omnipresent, then why isn't there the
same Jesus figure in Japan or the same
Jesus figure in Africa or the same Jesus
figure in the Americas even though they
all these people were living in all
these parts of the world at the same
time? Why did he only show himself to
say 10,000 people in ancient Israel and
take every Okay, so here I am. Here's
I'm turning water into wine. I'm walking
on water. These are my miracles which
are very I mean compared to the almighty
God and the Old Testament who parted the
seas and the 10 plagues and everything.
These are very minor, very minor
miracles compared to everything else.
And you're basically asking the people a
very small amount to take his word and
say, "Okay, this is me and now go spread
the word." And there were many people
back in the day that had the same sort
of philosophies and claimed to be the
messiahs themselves except Jesus was the
one that won in that sense and that's
why we have him here. So why why is it
that we can't all just believe in one
God, ask for forgiveness from this one
God and actually have to take this
little separate thing that could or
could not be true.
Okay. Obviously the greatest miracle
that Christ performed was rising from
the dead. You and I have a date with
death. The question is, is there life
after death? Jesus Christ said, "I am
the resurrection of the life. He who
believes in me will live even though he
dies." And then he backed up that claim
with an historical resurrection. So
that's what sets Christ apart from every
other major world religious leader.
>> And the resurrection was only witnessed
by two women who didn't write the
gospel.
>> Over 500 people, Paul writes in 1
Corinthians 15, which is 20 years after
the fact, saw Christ risen from the
dead. And Paul was essentially saying,
"Go out and talk to them if you don't
believe me." So Christ appeared not just
to two women, to over 500 people at
different times in different places
risen from the dead.
>> But he didn't perform any more miracles.
He was just walking around. In other
words,
>> that's all that's recorded. You're
right. He did not perform any other
miracles. Yeah,
>> I think it would be a bit vague in that
sense if uh even if Paul records that
500 people did see him rise from the
dead,
>> wouldn't wouldn't wouldn't he have done
something after he had risen, wouldn't
he have at least brought order back into
society, done something? No.
>> The Jewish Messiah supposedly is uh even
or the the Tulim in Shia Islam is
supposed to bring order in the world
once chaos I mean bring back the the
kingdom of heaven. the the idea of the
second coming, wouldn't that be that he
would be resurrected for a third time?
I'm not really certain about.
>> All right. Jesus insisted the first time
he came, it was to die. He promised to
come back a second time when it would be
to establish universal peace forcefully.
But he didn't do that the first time,
but he'll do that the second time when
he comes a second time. He promised to.
>> Okay. Okay. Well, just address the the
like the the even resurrecting if it's
it's not really that big of a miracle.
And why why didn't he appear himself
appear all over the world?
>> That that's that's my I guess my m my
major question. Resurrection, you can
agree that it's a good thing or a bad
thing,
>> but I'm still confused as to why he only
appeared in the Mediterranean. Why
didn't he appear?
>> I do not know why he didn't get on a
boat and travel to Rome. I don't know,
but I can promise you that there are
going to be a truckload of people in
heaven who never heard the word Jesus,
obviously, as I think you're alluding
to. And Hebrewsap 11 in the New
Testament lists some of these people by
name. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses,
Rahab, a gentile prostitute. Obviously,
they never heard about Christ. They were
born hundreds of years before him. But
in humility, they put their faith in God
to the best of their ability.
They're going to be in heaven. But why
are they going to be in heaven? Not
because they did more good than evil.
They're going to be in heaven because of
God's grace, his forgiveness, his
generous love. They're going to be in
heaven because Christ died on a cross
for their sin. So God judges us not
according to what we do not know. God
judges us according to what we do know.
And that is why Jesus says so clearly in
Luke 12 47 and 48, that servant who
knows his master's will and does not get
ready or does not do what his master
wants will be beaten with many blows.
But the one who does not know and does
things deserving punishment will be
beaten with few blows. From everyone who
has been given much, much will be
demanded. And from the one who has been
entrusted with much, much more will be
asked. So, in other words, God's chosen
people before Jesus's time were the ones
who went to heaven because they trusted
God and believed in God to the best of
their abilities, but those afterwards
will not.
>> If you reject Christ, you're rejecting
God is what Jesus says. So, if I hear
about Jesus and reject him, I'm
rejecting God.
It kind of goes around in circles in a
way. You can't really get get away from
it. If you hear about Jesus, then you're
going to hell. But if you don't, you're
going if you don't and you do good, then
you're going to heaven.
>> No. If you if you never hear about
Christ, but to the best of your ability,
you put your faith in God like Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob, Rahab, Noah, Moses, you're
going to be in heaven. They're those
folks are going to be in heaven. They
never heard the word Jesus, but in
humility, they put their faith in God.
They were not sinless people, that's for
sure. They were all dirty rotten
sinners, every one of them. But they put
their faith in God, they're going to be
in heaven.
>> Discovered other gospels like the gospel
of Philip, the gospel of Mary Magdalene,
others that have been written at around
the same time as the earliest gospels
discovered which still have been written
about, I don't know, 50 to 150 years
after Christ. So, uh, how could you be
sure that these are actual eyewitness
testimonies even if they weren't even
written in the language of Jesus?
>> Okay, good question.
The evidence is that the gospels were
written 20 to 60 years after the fact.
The earliest fragment of a gospel is the
John Ryland's fragment in the John
Ryland's Museum in Manchester, England.
It's a fragment of the Gospel of John.
It's dated between 117 and 138 AD. So
that is 30 to 60 years after the writing
of John, which is an incredibly short
span of time.
the early church fathers Ignatius Bishop
of Antioch and Clement Bishop of Rome
quote Matthew, Mark and Luke in letters
that they wrote in 95 and in 110 AD. So
that is why I am convinced the evidence
is the gospels were written not 150
years after the fact. They were written
in the first century and obviously
the eyewitnesses were around
>> and how how can you be even certain that
even if they were written earlier
>> right
>> and uh back then they didn't have the
translations we have right or the even
the way of transmitting information we
didn't have uh like the printing press
they had to transmit everything by hand
people had to copy them
>> at that time people weren't that
literate as we are today
>> correct so the translation even with
Aramaic which is a language Jesus would
have spoken spoken. All the letters, all
the gospels written are in either Greek
or Coptic, which are either the Egyptian
language or the Greek language were
which were the more popular ones at the
time. So, how can you be sure? Why isn't
there anything written in Aramaic about
Jesus? Why isn't there any historical
account except for these Greek things
that spread out that way more so than
the other, for example?
>> You bet. Because Greek was the common
trade language of that day. Undoubtedly,
many Jews spoke Greek because it was the
trade language of the day.
>> And so, you're right. Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John were probably written in
Greek. Although, there's a small
possibility that Matthew was written in
Aramaic. That's a possibility that an
early church father alludes to, but
we're not sure.
But we have over 5,200
Greek manuscripts or pieces of
manuscript.
>> Not all of them are identical, though.
>> Correct. There are many variants.
>> But how can you be sure that the gospel
or the at least the translation which is
a translation of a translation at least
the compilation of the Bible that we
have today was written or was actually
compiled in the year 360 AD. So that's
even more so after the fact than what we
know today. All the letters perhaps
there were even more letters perhaps
letters were fabricated perhaps. So how
do you know why do you take it for uh on
faith that these specific letters these
I don't know 40ome letters uh or books
in general with the whole Bible take it
to be the absolute truth even though it
wasn't really what we have today wasn't
really existent until 360 years
afterwards. Okay, first point. We don't
go from translation to translation to
translation to translation. We go from
the original Greek to English. the
original Greek to Latin, the original
Greek to French or Spanish. We have over
5,200
Greek manuscripts and the New Testament
was written in Greek. So, we're not
going through just several different
translations. We're going from Greek to
English.
Second point,
the Gnostic Gospels, the Gospel of
Thomas, the Gospel of Pilate, the Gospel
of Peter, the Gospel of Truth, the
Gospel of Judas.
Those gospels were rejected at a fairly
early date in the second century because
they were based on the philosophy of
Gnosticism, which taught the physical is
evil, the spiritual is good. Well, that
comes right from Plato, the Greek
Gnostics. Knowledge is key. The spirit
is key. The physical is evil. And
obviously Jesus Christ contradicted that
idea. And so does the Bible because the
Bible and Jesus insisted God created
your body. It's a beautiful gift. Take
care of it. And he also created your
soul, your spirit, your personality.
Take care of it.
Now, what were the tests that were used
to determine whether a New Testament
document would be canonized, be part of
the 27 New Testament books? Three tests.
First test, was it written by an apostle
or by someone who knew an apostle?
Second test, was it orthodox, meaning by
that in agreement with the Torah, the
Old Testament, and the apostolic oral
tradition? And third test, was it used
by the churches around the known world
around the Mediterranean from Rome down
to Alexandria, Egypt? If it met those
three criteria, it was accepted into the
New Testament cannon.
>> So basically, the more popular if it was
lucky enough to be popular, then it
would would have been accepted. In other
words, what if uh what if there was
something what if why didn't Jesus
actually write anything even?
>> I don't know why Jesus didn't write
anything.
>> It's all
>> I don't know.
It's all faith then. Can I just
>> Oh,
>> you got to be kidding me.
>> Yeah.
>> Just because someone doesn't write
something doesn't mean it's all faith
that I believe he existed.
>> You're you're taking it on the Bible
that it actually existed.
>> Even though the Bible claims
to be eyewitness accounts, even though
they were written several even if it's
decades, it's not an eyewitness account.
When you study US history, do you
necessarily study the letters of Abraham
Lincoln or George Washington? Or do you
write or do you read eyewitness
testimony of Abraham Lincoln and George
Washington?
>> Well, if I read the Epic of Gilgamish, I
don't really believe the guy actually
fought with the dragon
>> because the literary style of the Epic
of Gilgamish is not historical
narrative. That's why I don't accept it
either as historical narrative. So the
Bible as in historical narrative would
be Noah's flood
>> that Jonah was swallowed by a whale. No,
>> that'd be a historical narrative as
well.
>> No, you don't read about Jesus in next
to Noah or Jonah. Instead, you read
about Jesus in the Gospels of Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John written in Greek in
the first century by eyewitnesses. And
when you read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John, you'll notice it's not. Once upon
a time in the land of Nod, Winkin,
Blinkin, and Odd took Jesus on a boat
ride. No, it does not read that way.
>> It does say that three kings came and
bore him gifts.
>> Very good. No, they're not. Three kings.
>> Three wise men.
>> Thank you. Three wise men came and
offered gifts to Jesus. That's correct.
>> Absolutely correct. That's historical.
Hollywood art
>> that they followed a star and the star
led them. It doesn't seem all too
historical as an account. And and if
you're basing it on the wording, then
how what's stopping people to make it
word or to word it in a way that sounds
historical
instead of a a tale for example? Well,
when you read the gospels, it's does not
have the literary style of epic poetry
like the Iliad in the Odyssey of Homer.
Instead, Luke chapter 3, in the 15th
year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar,
when Pontius Pilate was governor of
Judea, Herod tetrarch of Galilee, his
brother Philip tetrarch of Itaria and
Tronitus, and Lysanius tetrarch of
Abalene. During the high priesthood of
Anus and Caiaphas, the word of God came
to John. Well, who gives a rip about
who's tetrarch and governor? Well, Luke
did. Why? Because the evidence is Luke
was a meticulous historian. He's not
just ripping this stuff up off the wall
and making his stuff up. He's a
meticulous historian and he's writing it
as a historical narrative.
>> Can I ask something a little bit like
beside the point?
>> I I like your line of thinking. You can
go for it.
>> Okay. This is more of a actually just
theological self. Uh do you believe that
um
well according to Revelations it said
that God banished Lucifer who was an
angel an adversary down to hell for it
please that would make Lucifer an enemy
of God right okay if Lucifer is the
enemy of God then in other words he's
the one who is tempting us right now to
do bad deeds in order to go against him.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay.
Did God create hell?
>> Yes.
>> Why did he create hell? It doesn't say.
>> Good question. Very good. But before we
get to that, you just raised another
great issue. Revelation. See, Revelation
is not historical narrative, is it?
>> Revelation is highly apocalyptic
literature, highly symbolic. See, which
is very different from the Gospels. See,
so the See, the New Testament has
different literary genres, different
literary styles.
>> Exactly.
>> Good. Okay, great. All right. Now, why
did God create hell
for the devil and his angels? We read in
the New Testament. Why though? Why does
he create hell,
Ethan? If there is no hell,
evil wins.
But why is hell suddenly appearing in
the New Testament? There is no hell in
the Old Testament at all.
>> No, there are illusions to hell in the
Old Testament.
>> There's illusions to just the afterlife.
There's no illusion whatsoever to a
place where you'll be damaged or uh
damned to punishments or eternal
damnation. So
Daniel 12:2
multitudes who sleep in the dust of
death will awake, some to everlasting
life, others to shame and everlasting
contempt.
Okay, not crystal clear. No, no mention
of hell, but a pretty clear statement
that there was going to be a major
separation, some to everlasting life and
others to everlasting contempt.
Okay, now remember the reason there's a
hell first of all is because God is
good, he cannot allow evil to win.
There is no future for evil. Evil will
be destroyed. That's the first reason
there's a hell. The second reason
there's a hell is
>> So wait, so did did God create evil
then?
>> No.
>> Then how then if God is all powerful and
everything, why did he just not create
everything as good?
>> Good. God chose to partially limit his
power by creating you and me with a free
will. Which means,
>> can we have free will and always be
good?
>> Can we have free will and always be
good? Sure.
>> Yeah. So, so why didn't we He just
create all of us with the free will and
the capacity to do only good.
>> Well, he did. But free will means we're
free.
>> We don't have to do good.
>> I guess what I'm asking is there if
you're if you're thinking of it as polar
opposites as good and evil,
>> yes,
>> then there's only two possibilities,
either good or evil. But if there's only
one possibility, then the other one is
negligible. So if God only created good,
then evil doesn't exist. Therefore, if
he created everything good as it is,
then what we do as evil beings isn't
necessarily evil under his eyes. Unless
he states that there is evil and
therefore he did create evil.
Well, evil is simply taking a good gift
that God gives me and perverting it,
using it for the wrong purpose. And the
reason I can do that is because I have a
free will.
Now, the reason free will is so
important, Ethan, is
cuz if she ain't free,
then what does she mean when she says,
"Ethan, I love you."
>> Now, that's another completely different
topic.
>> No, it's not.
The most precious thing that you and I
have in life,
love, the ability to enter a
relationship with a person, is based on
free will.
Now you're asking me why is there evil
and I'm telling you why there's evil.
>> It's not because God created evil. It's
because God created us with a free will.
>> Okay? Suppose suppose suppose you're
right and everything there is the evil
and there is hell. Therefore God created
hell to banish the angels and Satan.
Right.
>> And to and to destroy evil.
>> Yes. Okay.
>> Right.
>> But Satan rules hell happily.
>> Am I correct?
>> No. No,
>> not happily.
>> Not happily, then why does he tempt
others to to evil?
>> If he's one dude,
>> okay,
>> he's committed to evil.
>> Fine. He's committed to evil. Therefore,
hell is his realm. He's happy perverting
the thoughts of others to try to get
them toward him.
>> Uh-huh.
>> So, if that would if that's the case,
then wouldn't would God Okay. Would God
want to punish someone who does evil?
Well, it's not so much that God wants
to, but because God is just, he must
punish evil.
>> Okay? So, say for example, if uh if I
kill someone and not repent for it,
>> yes,
>> God would send me to hell under the
justice just like hypothetically.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. Therefore, would Lucifer be doing
God a favor by tormenting the others who
are in hell?
>> Would L would Lucifer then not be God's
friend in that sense? No. God's uh
compatriate.
>> No, Lucifer is not God's friend.
Now, I I think it's also got to be
stated that we do not have a photograph
of hell. The Bible is incredibly vague
in describing hell. It talks about fire
and it talks about outer darkness.
You obviously can't have both of those
going on at the same time, right? And in
Matthew chapter 25, Jesus says that hell
was prepared for the devil and his
demons.
And obviously they don't have physical
bodies.
So exactly what is hell? I do not know.
I do know that Jesus used some of the
most horrible human language imaginable
to describe it. I do not want you,
Ethan, or anybody else to go to hell.
That would be horrendous.
>> Oh, but then you're also taking that it
exists based on what is written. And you
don't know it exists.
>> But I have found that Jesus doesn't lie.
I've experienced his trustworthiness in
my life.
>> Oh, that's you're using bias in your own
life. I haven't experienced it in his
life yet. I'm a good person and do good
deeds.
>> Well, I'm glad you do good deeds. So do
I. But to be honest with you, Ethan, I
also do pretty bad deeds at times.
>> Yes. So do I.
>> That is why I need God's forgiveness.
That's why I need Jesus Christ. Because
I've done bad at times. I am guilty. I
am under God's wrath for the wrong that
I have done. That's why I need Christ's
death on a cross to forgive me for the
wrong that I have done.
>> And why is it so so important that a guy
who dies on a cross who forgives you who
claims to be the son of God? Why is that
effective? Why why is that important for
me? For example, I would find better
solace and forgiveness if I transgress
somebody in a bad way. If I get
forgiveness from them specifically. I
guess it's a little bit easy to just ask
for forgiveness from some big guy in the
sky. It's like, okay, I'm sorry I did
this and not apologize to the person I
actually did something wrong to.
>> Oh, if I hurt you, I had better not just
ask God for forgiveness. If I'm genuine,
I will ask you to forgive me as well.
And if I don't ask you to forgive me,
then there's good reason to question
whether I'm genuine in my repentance.
So, you're absolutely right.
[Music]
