You can be seated. A time is coming when we may not be able to do this in our nation. And while we have this freedom, let us never take it for granted. Is anybody glad to be in this house this morning? Heat. Heat. Praise him. Yeah. Jesus, Satan, the Lord rebuke you. Right. And I just come against every demonic force that's a raid against this church. And a raid against these vessels. Christ be glorified. Hallelujah. If you're a guest, we want to welcome you to 2819 where we are serious about the spread of the gospel and the multiplying of disciples. And if you are one of our digital disciples watching us live right now across the nation or around the world, we welcome you to 2018. And if you're not a follower of Jesus Christ, we know that some of you are in this room. You may be watching me right now across that camera. We are glad that you are here. We pray for you every single week. We want you to know that you could belong before you believe. You could be amongst us before you believe. And my prayer for you every week of my life is that a day would come when you would hear this gospel reach you right there in your seat, right there across that camera, and you would hurl yourself at the foot of the cross. You would come into the kingdom of God. Your name will be inscribed in the lamb's book of life. And you will know the pardon of your sins, especially after conversations like we're about to have right now. We are in a series called entry and end times. And in the last two chapters of that series, we are studying together the final actions and the final words of the Lord Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter 21-2. And this particular message is perhaps the most pivotal in the entire series. It will feel like we're in a school this morning, but it is necessary. And I want to plead with you this morning as the word is proclaimed. Hear me that you would lend me your ears and lend me your heart as this message is one of the most important in this entire series. And I want to ask you to lean in with your whole heart. Our text today is coming from Matthew chapter 24 verses 1-14. And the title of this text, signs of the end, spirit of the living God, we pray that you would speak through this weakened earthn vessel the echo of these powerful words of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray the sons and daughters would be awakened and the unbeliever would be stirred. I pray the church would have discernment of where we are in this moment and that we would take serious these words of the savior. Draw us to yourself. Open our hearts and give us eyes to see and ears to hear. We need revelation in this moment in this room across that camera around the nation and around the world. Trouble the church now wherever this message is heard. We ask God that in the mighty and the majestic and the matchless name of our Lord and Savior and soon coming King Jesus Christ. And all God's people said, "Amen." Amen. And amen and amen. signs of the end. family, as I'm standing here in this podium with these holy scriptures in front of me, there is a massive green clock that I am acutely aware that is counting down backwards in front of me until it turns red when it hits zero. That clock that I'm staring at right now that is counting backwards on me is a constant reminder to me as a communicator. Hear me that while I am up here I I cannot waste time because that time is fixed. I cannot be distracted because that time is fixed. And because that time is fixed, I cannot take for granted this moment I have to serve God in proclamation before that green clock has turned red. And no matter what I do up here on this platform, that green clock will barrel down on me until it hits zero. And when it hits zero, it is a reminder to me that time has run out. This gathering has come to an end and what will follow after that clock hits zero is a transition out of this room. In the same way, hear me. God has placed all of humanity on a time clock. And that time clock that God has placed all of humanity on is counting backwards until the end of the age. Unbelief cannot stop that time clock. Jesus. Theological debates cannot stop that time clock. Ignorance cannot stop that time clock. And no matter what anyone says, God's prophetic time clock will hit zero and it will catch many people offguard and by surprise. Nothing in all of creation will stop the prophetic words of Christ and the prophetic words of the scriptures from coming to pass. For the only thing you and I have right now to give us any indication in terms of how much time we have, where we are in history, is this prophetic document that I have in my hand. Let me give you a real example from my life of how prophecy unfolds when the Lord has spoken. Between 08 and 10, my wife and I was in Bible college in Columbus, Ohio. And in the last semester in Bible college, we was at the home of a pastor. His son had visited us that night. It was the first time I met his son and we was in worship. And while we was in worship, something very supernatural happened that night. And I ran home and recorded it in my journal. I took a screenshot of that journal recording from 2009. And I want to read to you exactly what I wrote in my journal in June of 2009. What year did I write this? June of 2009. Okay, this is what I wrote. I said, "Tonight, Lena and I fellowship with Pastor Pete and his family." And as we sat and spoke in his home, a time of worship broke out and ensued. And it was the at the height of our time of worship and songs of praise. His son Junior came to me, laid hands on me and begin to pray and prophesy to me. And he spoke to me this a time of testing and refining was coming. He spoke to me of a major decision that need to be made in the very near future. He spoke to me of an army of young people following me. He spoke to me of pastoring but before that youth pastoring. He spoke to me of the impact of my ministry to the next generation. He spoke to me of a ministry imparted into me of God that will be controversial in culture. He said to me it will be called the gospel. He spoke of geographical failure from my past and how God was using my failure in this season to stretch me. He spoke of God sending me here to Ohio strategically. And lastly, the things he said to me, these things will begin to happen in your life very soon as in the very next season. He said, "Do not worry." And with that, he embraced me. He left from that moment. Okay, this was in 2009. Okay, wrote it down in my journal. The major decision we had to make is where Lena and I was going to go to start a church. In 6 months, we had to make that decision. Prayed about all of these cities. Wanted to go to DC. Wanted to be in the Northeast. Wanted to be near New York. Put Atlanta at the bottom of the list. Did not want to come to Atlanta. Used to sin a lot in college in Atlanta. Wanted did not like the heat. Did not want to come here. The Lord sent me here against my will. I had to obey him. That was the difficult decision I had to make. Watch. 6 months after my wife and I arrived here, I got a job as a youth pastor in South Atlanta. He said, "Things will begin to happen very quickly." One year after that job, the Lord called us to start our very first church. Two years after that moment, our first church is born, which was called Victory Church in October 2012. I look up this day after 12 years of pastoring and there is an army and there is an army of young people under the banner of 2819. The ministry imparted to me the spread of the gospel. Controversy. Y'all already know that no cowards on the platform. Impact to the next generation. God will determine that God. But these words that the Lord spoke through that man of God have manifested in my life as God has spoken them. I'm just giving you a real life example of how prophetic declarations from the Lord come to pass because when Jesus speaks, he cannot lie. Now, that's just the words of a man who could have been wrong. But there is something in front of me that will never be wrong. And that is the written. The written prophetic words of Christ will never fall to the floor. They will never be wrong. And if there's any prophetic speech we can trust, it is right here in the word of God. Hear me. The Bible is the only religious document in the history of mankind that has thousands of prophecies that have and will come to pass accurately no matter what anybody says or believes. They will unfold exactly the way God has said it. And not one word of the Lord will fall to the floor. Amen. And it is in this book we come to Matthew chapter 24 and 25 called by theologians the Olivet discourse for where it was taught. It is, hear me, the prophetic end time teachings of Christ about the coming of the signs of the end of the age about the things that will be happening in the world right before his return. It is the details about his physical return to the earth and the day he cracks that sky. And whether people believe it or not, read it or not, accept it or not, it will unfold exactly the way Jesus taught it. These two chapters are among the most studied chapters in all of the New Testament because of the escatological information that is in these texts. Escatological, esctology, the study of end time events. And although there are differences of opinions about these particular texts as it relates to the time frame and history when they unfold, I believe based on my exposition, my teaching that what I'm going to present to you today is accurate. And for the first time, I give you the permission to have a different opinion not about what Jesus has said, but about when this may unfold. And even if we disagree based on what you've read and what I read in terms of the time of when these things unfold, here is what we must agree upon. Jesus is coming. Amen. Judgment is coming. Amen. The word will not fall to the floor. And eternity is coming. That much we can't agree about. So, Matthew, the eyewitness of what Jesus taught in this Olivet discourse, he writes to us in Matthew chapter 24, the beginning of this prophetic end time teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 24 and 25. Today, just the first half of that teaching. Matthew chapter 24 and verse one. Matthew, an eyewitness wrote, "Then Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to him to point out the buildings plural of the temple." But he answered them, "You said, "You see all these, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. Stop. So you remember the Lord has entered into the city of Jerusalem for the final week of his life. He has now ended a debate with the religious leaders of Israel and he has won that debate by the power of the word of God and by his divine wisdom. The scripture tells us right here that he leaves the temple for what would be the very last time that the Lord was in that temple. He will never again return to that temple which I think is symbolic that the Lord never returns to that temple. It was the Lord who said in the last message that he will now leave Israel how desolate. And God now is exiting that temple never again to return to that temple. The presence of God will now leave that temple. And I think Jesus exit is symbolic of God exiting the vain religious system of the people of that time never again to return to that temple. It is important for us to always follow Christ and to be wherever he is and to leave wherever he's not. Churches that are corrupt. Churches led by demons. Places that turnabad where the spirit of God is no longer there. I think it is important for us to leave the places Christ is not. Just like his followers followed him out of that temple. Now, I want you to notice that the disciples came to him and they pointed out to him the buildings of the temple complex. This temple that we are talking about was built by a man named King Herod who was a master builder. This temple that we're talking about was one of the greatest structures in all of the Middle East in the first century world. It was massive. It was beautiful. It was draped in limestone. It had gold. It would glisten in the sunlight. It sat on a hill in the center of Jerusalem. It was a beautiful marvel of architecture. Now, the disciples as they're leaving the temple, they look over their shoulder and they say to the Lord, "Look at the buildings of the temple complex. They expected him to be in awe of the temple the same way they were in awe of the temple." Because it's easy for us to be in awe of things that are grand and shall we although God himself is no longer there. Big ministry, God is not there. Big following, God is not there. Big conference, God is not there. And they expected Jesus to be in awe of the temple complex. I mean, they are looking at something that is massive and beautiful. Yes. And then the Lord, watch this, prophesies to them that this beautiful complex will be destroyed in the future. Not one stone will be left upon another. Okay? So the Lord prophesies the destruction of the temple. This happened in AD.33. his words, the prophecy would unfold about 40 years later in AD.70 where a Roman general named Titus would roll into Jerusalem, siege the city. According to Josephus, would kill over a million Jews, dead bodies in the street. His soldiers for their hatred for the Jews, seize that beautiful temple complex. He tries to stop them from destroying it. They disobey his command. They dismantled the entire temple. They flattened it down to ruins. So we see the words of the Lord did not fall to the floor because the prophetic words of Jesus can be trusted. His words of life can be trusted. His words of warning can be trusted. When he says, "I'll never leave you nor forsake you." You can trust that. When he says, "I'm coming again," you can trust that when he speaks life, you can trust that. When he speaks judgment, you better believe that. Watch verse three. The Lord now is leaving with his followers, traveling out of the city back to the place that he will lodge. And as he's traveling, the scripture says, "And as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, "Tell us when will these things be and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Stop. So the disciples in the Lord are traveling out of the city. And as they're traveling out of the city to find a place to lodge for the night, more than likely Bethany, they come to a place called the Mount of Olives. A small mountain just outside the city of Jerusalem. Give me my picture control room. Okay. This is the Mount of Olives. It is a small mountain just outside the city of Jerusalem. I took this picture or somebody took it of me in December 2018 when I had an encounter with God that changed my life forever. And it was here where I was standing on the top of the Mount of Olives. This very top of this mountain where the prophet Zachchariah predicted that Jesus will return back to this mountain. So now there is the Lord and there is his disciples standing on top of this mountain, the Mount of Olives. And as they look out across the distance where you see the gold dome of the rock was not there was a massive temple. The disciples are staring at that temple from the top of the mount of olives. They see it glistening in the sunshine and then they ask him three prophetic questions as catalogical questions. Lord, if that thing is going to be destroyed, when will this be? When will that temple be destroyed? What will be the signs of your coming and what will be the signs of the end of the age? I just want you to notice that the temple is not there. I want you to see that there is a Islamic mosque there. And I just want to parenthetically insert this that that temple will be rebuilt. That means that someday this mosque will come down. Hallelujah. Because of the words of Christ can't fall to the floor. Amen. Now pay attention as they're standing on top of this mountain asking these three catal escatological questions. The Lord does not answer them the first question in Matthew, but in Luke he does answer. Luke records his answer. When you see the city of Jerusalem surrounded, you know that she is left desolate. The next two questions they ask him, "What will be the signs of the end and the sign of your coming?" And what we have in the rest of Matthew chapter 24 all the way through 25 is the longest response that Jesus ever gave to a question. It is the longest response he ever gave to a inquiry. Now watch, listen to me carefully. They say to him, "When will the temple be destroyed? What is the signs of your coming and the end of the age?" They are asking him like these things are all together at one like these things are going to happen at one time. The disciples have a end time theology that is veiled. It is not completely accurate. In the Old Testament there are prophecies about a coming time of tribulation. A voice that will arise before the tribulation. The Messiah will come before the tribulation. And so now they see all these things happening at the same time. The tribulation period, a voice coming, the Messiah coming, the overthrow of that tribulation times. They saw all of that is happening at once. The prophets did not see that the Messiah would come, leave, and come back. The disciples did not see that the Messiah would come, leave, and come back. And so in their mind, they're thinking, "Wait a second. We've been under Roman oppression. John the Baptist has come preaching. Jesus has come to us declaring himself as the Messiah. Man, the end of the age is right now. This time is right now. And they have a end time excitement that right now the kingdom is about to be restored to them. The Lord is about to overthrow Rome. They are about to come out from that oppression. They are thinking the end time is about to happen like right now. And what they don't see is what Paul called a mystery. What they don't fully understand is that between the time Jesus leaves and the time Jesus returns, there will be a gap in history called the church age that you and I are living in right now. what Paul called a mystery that was hidden from the times of old. That the people in the Old Testament did not see this. They did not see the church age. They did not see you sitting in this room. They did not see the people of God being gathered from all around the world. They never saw this. So they could not understand this gap. They could not understand that the Lord will leave. There'll be a gap and he would return. And what the Lord teaches them next from verses four all the way to the end, hear me now, is what he will give to them as the signs of the end times. Watch. Signs that will happen that I believe during the tribulation period. Okay? There is a time coming in the very near future that the scripture reveals to us called the tribulation period. It is a seven-year time of history that will begin with a treaty that is signed by a man the scripture calls the antichrist. He will sign a seven-year peace treaty with the nation of Israel. And during those seven years, God will deal strictly with the nation of Israel to reveal to them that Christ is the Messiah. During that time, it will be a time of world catastrophe, global catastrophe, one world order, one world religion. There will be a dominant figure who will be the antichrist and he will rule the world with deception during that time. It will be a time of great suffering, great pain, great devastation, great brokenness. It is a time you and I want no part of. Okay. Daniel the prophet in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 27, he prophesies about that time. In Daniel chapter 9 and verse 27, he talks about the antichrist thousands of years before he is born. He says, "And he, the antichrist, shall make a strong covenant with many people for one week, that is seven years." This is called the prophecy of Daniel's 70th week. And for half of the week, he shall put an end to the sacrifice of the offering. That is at 3 and 1/2 years, he will break his treaty, and he will set himself up as God in the new temple. And on the wing of abomination shall come one who makes desolate until the decree ends and the wrath of God is poured out on the desolator. So Daniel prophesies about this 7-year period called the tribulation period. Listen to me that I believe we are in the final hours of the church age. And what is coming next behind that is the tribulation period. I believe we do not have all this time left before the beginning of the tribulation period. And what Jesus tells us next are the signs of the end of the age that will begin to happen during the tribulation period. Verse 4-14. Here are the signs. I will give them to you in succession. Okay. The first sign, verse four. And Jesus answered them, here are the signs of the end time. See that no one leads you astray. For many will come in my name, saying, "I am the Christ." And they will lead many astray. So the first sign that we're getting closer to the end times is global deception. Now hear me. Because the church would have been raptured. The church would been gone by this time. The world would be in chaos by this time. And because the world will be in chaos, because the world will be going through devastation, people naturally look for voices to lead them during that time. They look for political leaders. They look for spiritual leaders. And because people will be suffering, there will be a vacuum for leadership. And in that vacuum for leadership, many false prophets will arise. They will claim to be Christ himself. And as they claim to be the Messiah coming to save them from this terrible time, Jesus says, "Many people will be led astray by those who claim to be Christ." Right now, as I'm talking to you, there are people alive who claim to be Jesus Christ. So the Lord sees when you see an increase of deception in the earth during that time, you know that the very end is near. When we see an increase of false teachers, a increase of false prophets, a increase of people saying, "I am the Christ," we know that is the beginning sign that the end is near. Global deception is the beginning sign that the end is near. This is just an exhortation to you and I that one of the wisest thing you can ever do is know the scriptures for yourself. Be underneath sound biblical teachers. Be invested in biblical community. Have a strong prayer life because the less truth you know, the easier it is for you to be led astray. If you don't have a prayer life, you won't have discernment. And you'll be led astray by voices that appear to be godly because a language that is godly, but you'll be led astray because you cannot discern that God did not send that person. Right? So, one of the greatest things you and I can do to protect ourselves as we get closer to these end times, watch, is have knowledge of the scriptures for yourself. Read the Bible for yourself. Stop believing everything everybody says. Stop believing everything I say, man. Go home and read behind me. If all of your theology comes from podcasts, if all of your theology comes from books that men have written, if all of your theology comes from social media, you're going to be led astray. But instead of just trusting voices that just rise up, appear to be godly. Hear me, brothers and sisters. Man, learn to read these scriptures. How? For yourself. Amen. Have a life of prayer. Grow in sensitivity to the Holy Spirit. So the first sign is global deception. Now there is a parallel of Jesus's teaching in the book of Revelation. John the Apostle in year AD90s was on the island called Patmas, a prisoner for the preaching of the gospel. And while he was there, the Lord appeared to him in his resurrected state and told him, "Write down all these things." And what John wrote was the book of Revelation. I just want to read to you a passage from Revelation chapter 6, which is a parallel of what's going to happen during the tribulation period. Now, in the book of Revelation, you have symbols and types, but they are manifestations of things happening in the earth. In Revelation chapter 6 and beginning at verse one, Jesus gave this revelation to John. John said, "Now I watched when the Lamb opened what the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a loud voice of thunder, come. And I looked, and behold, a white horse, and its rider had a bow and a crown, and was given to him, and he came out conquering and to conquer." These next riders are called the writers of the apocalypse. This first writer is the antichrist. He rides out into the earth. In the scriptures, he's on a horse in the earth. He rises to power and he comes out, watch, with a crown to conquer and to deceive. Now, look at the horses that ride out behind the antichrist. Pay attention to the scriptures. I'm trying to take you out of school this morning. Is this too heavy for you? So during the tribulation period, the antichrist comes to power. He is the first rider. Look at the horses that follow the antichrist. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come." And came out another horse bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth so that the people should slay one another. And he was given a great sword. What does that represents? War. So the antichrist comes to power and what follows him is warfare in the earth. Look at the next writer. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, "Come." And I looked and behold a black horse. And his rider had a pair of scales in his hand. And I heard them seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, "A quart of wheat for a daenarius, three quarts of barley for a daenarius, and do not harm the oil and the wine." What is that? Famine. What follows war? Famine follows war. The antichrist comes out, warfare comes behind him, famine comes behind him, and what follows famine? Look at the next horse. Verse seven. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the living creature say, "Come." And I looked, and behold, a pale horse. And his rider's name was what? Death. And Hades, which is hell, followed him. And they were given authority over a further of the earth, a fourth of the earth, to kill with the sword, and with famine, and with pestilence, and by wild beasts of the earth. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness that they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, "Oh sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you judge and avenge?" So what we see here in Revelation, I'm going back to Matthew. What we see in Revelation is a picture of what's going to happen during this tribulation period. The Antichrist comes to power. Warfare follows him. Famine follows him. Death follows him. Hades follows them because many people will be eternally lost. Now go back to Matthew chapter 24. The first thing we saw was deception. That is the Antichrist. What followed? Verse six. And you will hear of what? wars. Gosh, and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. But Jesus said, the closer we get to the end during this tribulation period, you're going to hear of wars and rumors of wars. That is, there will be global conflict all around the earth. What follows global deception is global conflict. There will be wars happening all around the earth. Some of these wars will probably be nuclear from the things we see in the book of Revelation. There will be cities that will be wiped off the map and nations that will be wiped off the map. There will be bloodshed and death all throughout the streets. Infrastructure in cities will collapse. Power grids will collapse. The trade routes for food and supplies of goods will be collapsed. There will be headlines on CNN and Fox News and all over social media of wars happening all around the world. There will be rumors of other wars happening all around the world. There will be global conflict like we've never seen in the history of humanity. And during that time, there will be anxiety and fear and people will be worried for their lives. And yet, the Lord says to those who will follow him in that time, don't worry. All these things must come to pass. That is, even if you're in the middle of difficulty, if it is my will, he says to them, don't worry. How can you have peace in the middle of trouble? Those who set their minds on him, watch, he will give them peace. So we see in the last days, the first sign is global deception. The second sign is global conflict. Look at this third sign, verse 7. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom and there will be famines. That's that black horse and earthquakes in various places. So we see after that there will be global suffering. There will be famines. People will be hungry. There will be a scarcity of food. There will be earthquakes all around the world. There will be chaos and global devastation. People will suffer greatly during these times. And then verse eight, he says, watch, all these things are but the beginning of birth pains. Gosh. Now, family, I've never given birth to a child, and I will not. And nobody who changes their gender will ever give birth to a child. But my wife has four children, and I've watched four children be born to my wife. And you normally don't have birth pains when somebody conceives. You don't have birth pains in the first month. You don't have birth pains in the third month. You don't have birth pains in the fifth month or the sixth month. But get closer to that nine months and the woman start having these Braxton Hicks and then we start timing these contractions. And the closer you get to the birth of the child, them contractions begin to speed up in frequency. They may go from every 10 minutes to every 5 minutes to every 3 minutes to every 2 minutes. And so the closer you get to the birth of the child, the more those birth pains come in frequency. This is important that Jesus typ cast the end of the age with a woman who is pregnant. So that we will know when we see this in society that the more we see these things happening in frequency, we will know that we're getting closer to the end of the age. Peep the text. The Lord did not leave people in mystery about what the times will be like at the end of the age. He did not leave us confused. He did not leave us in the dark. He did not leave us without warning. He let us know when you see these things happening in frequency, you know that the end is near. When you see these birth pains happening in frequency, you know that the end is near. This is important because in the judgment, nobody will have an excuse. Nobody will say, "Lord, we did not know." Nobody would say, "Nobody ever told us." He gave us all of this prophetic warning in the word of God. So when society sees these things happening in rapid succession, they know that the end is near. In fact, later on in Matthew, we'll get to the text when Jesus says, "Immediately after these days, the sky will crack open and everybody will see the sign of the coming of man coming on the clouds of power and great glory." This is important because he told us after the tribulation, he will appear. Although we don't know the exact day, we do know according to his own words, we'll get there that after the tribulation, he will appear. Now verse N. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. The next sign we see as we get closer to the end is global persecution of believers. I want to draw your attention to the word then. I believe this word then is a transitional word that marks the beginning or the middle of the tribulation period. That that first half of the tribulation he gives us from verse four to verse 8. And then in verse 9, I think this marks the second half of the tribulation where you could go read for yourself in Revelation where there is a massive global persecution of believers. He says there will be tribulation. He said they will put the people who serve God to death and that all nations all nations will hate the people of God. See, we're not here yet. The Lord is talking about something in the future. We still have nations that are tolerant of Christianity, but as you see tolerance for Christianity decreasing, you know, we're getting closer to these times. You know what? You know, this is why I I just want to say this. This is why you got to watch the preaching you're listening to. I I'm I'm going to say this and I don't care. Yo, I I I be trying to help y'all to see. And listen, hear me. All the preaching you'll be listening to, I want to ask you a question. What is it preparing you for? We listening to all these sermons, all these podcasts, all these books. Talking about whom? Talking about themselves or talking about Christ? talking about their revelations or talking about the scriptures with all of these noise that we have in our all of this noise we have in society. What is it preparing you for? We need to be on the teaching in this hour and podcast in this hour and books in this hour and conference in that that is preparing us for the return of the sun that is preparing us, hear me, to be faithful witnesses for Christ. Amen. That is preparing us, hear me, to not waste our time. Now, I'm talking to you, America. How long will you love entertainment? How long will you love to be stroked in your emotions? How long will you run from preaching that cause you to read, cause you to be convicted, cause you to turn away from sin? These things are coming. So what is American preaching preparing us for if it's not preparing us to be faithful now? The Lord says, "When I come, will I find my people being faithful?" I'm trying to, sister. And during that time, many will betray one another. That is those who abandon the faith, you know what they're going to do? They're going to turn around and crucify those that don't leave. They're going to say stuff like, "I tried Jesus and I walked away." Then they're going to put out books hating on Jesus. Those who walk away from God, this is a great apostasy in those days. They're going to turn around and persecute those who hang on to the Lord with everything that they have. Verse 11. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will increase, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. This next sign, watch, is global chaos. He said, "Lawlessness will be increased." You know what that is? When you see a increase, oh my God, help us. When you see an increase in sin, a increase in wickedness, a increase in evil, a increase in lawlessness, a increase in arnacky, when you see when you see a increase in these things happening, the love of people is going to grow cold. Why? The world during that time will be so evil, so corrupt, so gripped by lawlessness and anarchy and everybody doing what seems best in their own eyes. He said, "Because of that, the love of men is going to grow cold." I'm just going to say to you, yo, we see the winds of all these things happening right now in society. I'm I'm I'm just telling you, the winds are blowing. Watch. And those who have eyes to see, let them see. And those who have ears to hear, let them hear. You could play around and do church and dance and and and and and suck your thumb and waste time and all of that. I'm telling you right now, the winds of these things are blowing right now in eternity. And I wonder how many American believers are paying attention to that. How many of our leaders are preparing us to be faithful in this hour? The winds of these things are and we just we're just playing church while the Lord is preparing the world for his return. And if we know he's coming back, we should be making the best use of our time. We should not take for granted our gifts and our talents and our abilities. You should be using everything you have to move the kingdom forward. And your prayers, your giving, your serving, your I mean, we should be using this time to do everything we can to make Jesus known. If we're not doing that, then what are we doing with our time? No, I'm serious about this. We can't just keep doing church and then going to eat and not caring about the kingdom until next Sunday. How does your prayer life not touch the kingdom or your post not touch the kingdom or your marriage not touch the kingdom or the disciplehip of your children not touch the kingdom? What are you doing with your time? You're building monuments to yourself or you're building the kingdom. Which one? No, I don't care. We're using our social media to build monuments to ourselves or we building the kingdom. We're using all of our resources to build monuments to ourselves or we if time is running out. You should be using it for the glory of your savior. If you got health and strength and life and resources and gifts and talents, we should be using all of this together to make Christ known to build up the kingdom. If we not doing that, I'm sorry. We are wasting our This whole thing is a waste of time. I ain't up here to play around. This ain't about no just having church for me. This is bigger than a Sunday morning service. I'm prepared to give my life for this thing right here. And ain't nobody going to shut me up. I'm not going to be distracted. I'm going to keep preaching this gospel whether people like it or not. No, we're too distracted by too many things on the fringes, too many ancillary things that don't matter. Wasting our times with vain things that don't matter. Where the winds of the end time are blowing on society. What are we talking about? I see y'all. They just put my time clock just turned red. Watch what they said to me. Time is up. That's what's happening right now. The clock is counting down till it hits red. And when the Lord says time is up, And during this time of global catastrophe, there is only one hope for humanity. Only one hope for humanity now. And it'll be the same hope for who are alive then. There is nothing else going to help mankind. Not just a conference, not just a book. The only thing that's going to help people in those days is the thing God is using right now to help people right now. It is in verse 14. The last sign of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ and this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed in the whole world as a testimony to all nations. That's the only thing that's going to give humanity hope during that tribulation period. It's the only thing that's given us hope right now. And this gospel of the kingdom, keep the word in the text. This, not any gospel, not your gospel, not fake gospel, not prosperity gospel, not false gospel, not secular humanistic gospel. This gospel that Jesus preached, that John preached, that the apostles preached, that I preached to you. This and this only gospel. Man is sinful. Man needs a savior. Christ is that savior. No other way to be saved. Must come to the cross. Must be filled with the spirit. Must be pardoned for your sins. Must live for Christ. must hear his teachings. This gospel, not any gospel, not ministries that put the word gospel on it because it's popular. And this last sign will be the only thing that will help man. And he says when you see the gospel being preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations. You know the end watch has come. The scripture tells us in Revelation that during the tribulation period an angel I don't know how this is going to happen so don't ask me will fly throughout the earth. And the scripture says that angel will preach the everlasting gospel and God will anoint. Revelation tells us special evangelists who will travel the whole globe preaching this everlasting gospel. And in the time right before Christ cracks the sky, every person on earth will hear this great message of the Lord Jesus Christ, they will hear this message of the one and only savior. They will have this great message that you must repent. You must be saved. You must be filled with the spirit. You must come to the foot of the same cross so that in the end no one will have an excuse. No one will stand before God in the judgment and say I did not know. No, every person will be held accountable for what they have heard. My God. We know this is during the tribulation cuz we'll get to that next week because there are nations right now that have not yet heard the gospel. You said, "But Philillip, if all of that is happening during the tribulation, why is this important to us?" You know why it's important to you? Because there is an event spoken of by the Apostle Paul in 2 Thessalonians where he says, "I don't want you to be ignorant, but the Lord will descend with the voice of a trumpet. The dead will rise to meet him in the air." And those of us who are alive will be, watch his words, caught up to meet him in the air. Theologians call this the rapture of the church. Everybody knows it's going to happen. We just don't know when it's going to happen. We see a prototype of the rapture in the book of Revelation. Revelation 1 2 and 3, Jesus is talking about the church. Revelation 4, he says, "Come up hither." Revelation 5 through19:20, no talk of the church until the Lord returns. And so the event watch on God's prophetic timetable that sets the stage for the coming of the antichrist and the tribulation is the rapture of the church. The catching away of those of us who are saved. Now watch. There is nothing left on the prophetic timetable for the rapture to happen. Yeah. Yeah. That means the rapture can happen in 10 years, 5 years, next year, next month. My God. Next week, that's how he catches us like a watch this thief in the night. And so since the rapture could happen at any time, my question to you is, what are you doing with your time? If the rapture happened 10 years from now, would you be ready? If it happened 5 years from now, would you be ready if it happened next year? Would you be ready if the rapture happened next week? Would you be ready? Would the Lord find you being faithful? Would he find you being faithful with the talents he gave you, the gifts he gave you, your prayers, your time, your children, your home, your marriage? Would the Lord find you being faithful if the rapture happened next gathering? Would he find you faithful? This is why I don't got time to be distracted. Don't got time to play around. This is why when I kneel to pray, I'm crying out for the loss. This is why when I'm in my prayer room, I'm crying out for those under the banner of 2018. crying out that God would awaken you. Crying out that God would set you on fire. Crying out God would open your eyes. This is why I'm crying out for your marriages and crying out for your children. This is why you see me being serious about the spread of this gospel because the rapture can happen at any time. This is why we should be using our prayers, our resources, our talents, our gifts, our abilities, our ministries to do everything we can, watch this word, together to push the gospel as far as we can. And y'all think the atheist is in trouble. You know who's in more trouble? All of you who think you're saved cuz you play church. Let the rapture happen on a Sunday. We see who's still in the building when it happens. And so I want to pray a prayer of readiness over you. A prayer of awakening. A prayer of no nonsense. God Jesus came, lived, died, rose, is coming again. First for his church, then for the tribulation, then for his millennial kingdom. Are you ready? Will you be found faithful? Or how long will you keep playing church when the winds of the end times are blowing in society? How long How long will you play around when the winds of society are blowing in eternity? How long will you play around? What will it take for you to be serious about your Christian walk, about your witness, about your prayer, about your gifting, about your talent, about your calling, about your ministry? When will you get serious? How long will you love sin and debauchery and think it's okay for you to call yourself a Christian and live in sin? How long will you do that? How long will you engage in vain activities and vain fights and vain and ancillary things that will not matter? How long? How long? I'm asking you. I'm asking you. How long will you keep coming to services and running out of here? And never take your savior serious. How long will you do that? Until you get caught in the end? How long? How long will we play instruments, preach sermons, sing songs, dance in houses, and be far away from God? How long will we do that? How long will you act like the Lord can't see your life in the dark? How long will you keep playing around? How long? How long? How do we get out? It's not there. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Heat up here. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Heat up here. Heat up here. Heat. Heat. Come on. Who wants to be found faithful? Come on. Who wants to be found faithful? Come on. We're not just too in charge up in here. We are ambassadors of the kingdom of God. Come on. We ain't got time to be playing no games. We ain't got time to be pic. The Lord Jesus is coming back. And I want to be found faithful. I want to be found faithful, God. Everything that's in my hand, God, I give it to you. I give you my heart. I give you my soul. I'll put my husband on the altar, God. I'll put my children on the altar, God. God, you've been so good to me, God. I just want to be found God that he may walk the gate that I may walk the gate, walk into heaven, God, fully surrender, fully empty of everything that you put inside of me, God. Father God, we lift this church to you, God. We want to be found faithful. It's not about us. It's not about us. It's about you, Lord. It's about your kingdom being established in this earth. Your kingdom come and your will be done in this place, in our hearts, in our minds, everything that's in our hands, every gift, God, we give it to you. Hallelujah God. Every ambition, every vain ambition, we cast it to the side. I declare that this church will be a church that honors you, Jesus. We will honor you. We will serve you. We will lift you up. We won't get caught up. We won't get caught up. We won't get caught up. Your kingdom come. Your will be done in us. In us. Hallelujah. Father, we thank you for this rainbow word today. We thank you God for the man's servant that delivered this word to us, God. God, you broke off the shackles of our mind. Hallelujah God. Thank you, God, for sound teaching and sound doctrine, God. Woo! That will lead us into the gates of eternity. We thank you. Woo! We honor you, God. You are so good. None of us, all of you. None of us. All of you. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Father, open our eyes. Burn us in our hearts. Set fire to our bosoms that we will be found faithful. When that trumpet blows and the mighty and the majestic In the matchless name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, put your hands together.