My wife has a lot of talents and skills. And she knows me really well, and over time she has learned how to use that to her advantage. Uh let me illustrate. A couple months ago, I was on a missions trip and uh about a day and a half before I got back, I called my wife and I said, "Beth." I said, uh "I hope I have some time from when I land to get you a gift for Mother's Day," which was a day and a half away. And she said, "Oh, you don't need to worry about me. You don't need to buy me a Mother's Day gift." I said, "Yes, I do." She said, "No, no, no." I said, "You deserve anything that you want." And she said, "I know how busy you've been lately, baby doll." And then she said, "So perhaps I can just go and pick something out, and you can just say that's what you gave me for Mother's Day." And I said, "Oh, wow." I said, "You would be willing to do that for me? You're so kind." And unknowingly in that instant, I had walked right into her trap. And she went on to say, "Well, in fact, I bought it yesterday." And I said, "Well, what did you get me?" And she said, "Well, you spent a little more than you normally do." Because she knew that I would love it. And when I started to object, she started pointing out how much gasoline money she had saved me. And she said, "And Dave," she said, "you know, your time is so valuable." Oh, okay. All right. Did I just get played? Right? I'll let you decide. Evidently, this is what I got her. A rug, some flowers and plants for the yard, three pair of athletic shorts, a doormat, and two lamps for the house. So you tell me, right? Uh yeah, that's female clapping right there. I know that a I know. All the ladies are very proud of her. She's good. She's very good. I want her to mentor me, right? [laughter] So. But, uh then I find myself this week assigned a title from Kyle on healing hurts in our lives, and uh I'm find myself wondering, "How do I get over the pain of the past?" I would never take advantage of my wife like that. Think you know me well enough, right? But, that's usually what happens in our life. When when we wrong someone else, we tend to downplay it, and we're very lenient on our own mistakes, and say, "Well, nobody's perfect." But, when somebody does something to us, all of a sudden, that's when it's different. And it's the story that Joseph endured for some 22 years. By way of review, Joseph was Jacob's favorite son, the child of Rachel, Jacob's favorite wife. His brothers resented the special treatment and gifts that Joseph received. Over 20 years earlier, they had thrown Joseph into a dry cistern, intending to leave him there to die. But, when a caravan of slave traders came by, they decided rather than kill him, let's make a profit off of him. So, they sold him into slavery. 13 years later, Joseph somehow had risen to serve an Egyptian official. But, when the official's wife repeatedly tried to seduce him, Joseph refused, saying, "How could I do such a wicked thing and sin against God?" What was the reward for his integrity? Well, the spurned woman falsely accused him, and Joseph was thrown into prison. But, all along, God was quietly unfolding his plan. Last week, if you missed Kyle's message, it was a masterpiece. You need to go back and and check it out. It blended the 250th anniversary of America with Genesis chapter 41. And he shared that Joseph is brought out of prison to interpret Pharaoh's dream. And Joseph said, "I can't interpret it, but God can." And with God's help, he explained, "Here's the meaning. There will be 7 years of abundance followed by 7 years of famine." And Pharaoh embraced Joseph's interpretation and his strategy. And he put Joseph in charge of storing grain during those good 7 years so that the nation would be able to survive the hard ones. And suddenly, this former prisoner had authority over all of Egypt to decide who it was that received food. What had looked like Joseph's greatest setback became God's greatest setup. And 7 years of plenty came and went. And then 2 years into this massive famine, Egypt had become the breadbasket of the world. People are coming from everywhere to have an audience with Joseph in hopes that he would give them grain for their family. But then one day in Genesis 42, in Canaan, Jacob says to his sons, "I want you all to go to this guy who's giving out the grain and see if he'll have mercy on our family and give us grain." So, 10 of Joseph's brothers went to Egypt. They brought silver that their dad sent with them. Thought the silver might butter him up a little bit. And guess who it is that they appear before. You got it. Joseph. And they find themselves right there. And they come into his presence and they bow down low before their brother who they had sold into slavery. Now, you'll recall when Joseph was a teenager, he said, "I saw a vision of all of you all bowing down to me." Well, that's part of why they wanted to kill him and sell him into slavery. But, they have no idea that that's who they're bowing down to right now, 22 years later. Can you imagine what's racing through Joseph's mind? Hurt, anger, memories, questions. His heart's about to pound out of his chest because he recognizes them. And now, he has the power to get even. He has the opportunity for revenge. Or he can respond differently. The brothers would never suspect that this is Joseph, who they had thrown in the pit. He was 17 then, he's 39 now. He's wearing the Egyptian clothing, fitting of a high-ranking official. He has a new name, he has a new look, he speaks a different language, and he is using an interpreter to talk with them, even though he understands every word that they're saying. What would you have done to your brothers? Hm. He had 20 years. He had two decades to plot what it was that he wanted to do to get even with them. But, for some reason, Joseph puts revenge on the back burner, and instead, he is going to go on a covert fact-finding mission, and he's going to put them through a series of tests to see if they are the same jealous, selfish brothers from 20 years before. And Joseph shows incredible wisdom and remarkable restraint. He finds out through the conversation that their dad is still alive. But, they say there's a younger brother who stayed at home. That's Joseph's full brother. That's Joseph's full brother from his mom, Rachel. And he's never met this younger brother. So, Joseph wants to determine if they are as jealous of his full brother, Benjamin, as they had been of him. And he does something unusual. He accuses them of being spies. He says, "I know why you're here. You're not here for the grain. You're here to check out where we are unprotected in our land." And he keeps getting the lay of the land and asking them questions, and he's putting them on the defensive to see how they accept it. And then he says, "I'm going to take one of you into custody." And he says, "If you bring this younger brother that you keep talking about back with you, then I'll know that you aren't spies, and I'll give you even more grain then." He wants to see how they treat Benjamin in front of him. Remember, they don't realize that Joseph can understand their language. Genesis 42:21, they said to one another, "Surely we are being punished because of our brother. We saw how distressed he was when he pleaded with us for his life, but we would not listen. That's why this distress has come on us." Hey, these are not references to the new little brother, Benjamin. These are references to 20 years before with Joseph when they threw him in the well, and in spite of his begging for mercy, they did nothing to help him. And now here they stand in front of this guy who has the power of death and life over them. Joseph's brothers in this moment are connecting their present suffering to how they had treated their long-lost brother years before, and they are haunted by the memory. Have you ever had a moment in your life where the gravity of your sin overwhelms you? And you realize your selfishness is breaking the heart of God? And in that instant, the Holy Spirit convicts you of sin? Maybe it's that prom, that night that you still think about. Perhaps it was when that officer said, "You're under arrest for driving under the influence." Or maybe it's when your boss said, "That's two strikes. Next time you're out." Or perhaps it was a moment like this. When you're sitting in this room and a scripture is read and in that moment God's word pierced through to your heart. And Joseph says, "Okay, I'm going to keep one of you here as a prisoner until you bring that youngest brother back with you. If you don't bring this younger brother back with you, then no grain, no food, no soup for you." [clears throat] That's a very loose paraphrase, all right? This is Joseph's strategy to observe if they are jealous of Benjamin like they were of him or have they matured. Now, the brothers had brought silver with them to exchange for grain, but unbeknownst to them, Joseph had their silver put back in their bags. Joseph is going to play some mind games with them, but trust me, his intentions are good. Now, today I'm covering four chapters in Genesis, all right? And so, I'm going to give you four words to summarize 134 verses. We could sum up chapter 42 with this word, conviction. They feel convicted. The brothers are convicted in their hearts. Their guilty consciences are awakened. Their guilt is overwhelming them. It's the exact same group of 10 brothers who cold-heartedly sat and ate their lunch beside a cistern while their brother was begging from the bottom of the cistern for them to spare his life. It's been two decades and I want you to notice that time has not erased their guilt. You know why? Because they never owned it. They never confessed it. They concealed it. Now, Joseph is going to continue to conceal his identity because he wants to see where this conviction leads. Over in the New Testament, we read in 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 10, "Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death." When the brothers return home, they tell their father Jacob everything that has happened, all about this powerful man, and he says, "Hey, you're not taking Benjamin back with you." He said, "I've already lost Joseph. I've already lost Simeon now, and you want me to send Benjamin with you? No way. I'm not going to lose the only other son that I have from Rachel." But in chapter 43, we learn that starvation has a way of getting your attention. And the brothers say, "Dad, we don't have a choice. This man in charge said we had to bring our youngest with us." Chapter 43, verse 8. Then Judah, that's one of the other brothers, Judah said to Israel, his father, Israel is another name for Jacob. So, Judah says to Jacob, "Send the boy along with me, and we will go at once, so that we and you and our children may live and not die. I myself will guarantee his safety. You can hold me personally responsible for him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, I will bear the blame before you all of my life." He's saying, "Dad, you can personally hold me accountable on this." And Jacob acquiesces to this request and says, "Okay, okay, but take some of the best products that we have here in Canaan, and may God grant you mercy before this man." So, they load back up with the original silver that they were going to give in order to butter this guy up, but this time they take the silver and some delicacies from the area. Jacob is smart. He wants to them to get on the good side of this powerful man who is now holding his son Simeon. And so, he says, "Grab what whatever Canaan has to offer and take it." Now, that got me to thinking this past week. What if what if as Southeast campuses we we had to send something as an envoy somewhere to butter somebody up, what might we send? Maybe our Kentucky campuses we might send some honey-roasted almonds from Buckies, right? That might be something. Or if those from Southern Indiana, maybe some cinnamon red hots [clears throat] from Schimpff's Confectionery. For those in Franklin, Tennessee, maybe you would send chicken and waffles. For those perhaps from Elizabethtown, maybe E-town would send an F-150. I don't know, all right? But Jacob's thinking is quite wise in this, and they make the long journey and they return to Joseph and he sees them coming and he invites them to his house for a feast. Well, this is very much the opposite from his first visit, where he detained them and held them in captivity and kept one of the brothers in prison. So, they bring Simeon out of captivity to join them for the feast. Joseph begins making small talk and nonchalantly asked about the family. Tell me, I think you mentioned you all had a dad. How's how's your dad doing? And well, he's good. He's good. Genesis 43:29. Joseph looked about and he saw his brother Benjamin. His own mother's son. He asked, "Is this your youngest brother? The one you told me about?" He said, "God be gracious to you, my son." And deeply moved at the sight of his brother, Joseph hurried out, looked for a place to weep. He went into his private room and he wept there. Hey, it is difficult for us to imagine the emotions that Joseph is feeling. It's it's overwhelming and at times he had to feel so conflicted. And Joseph continues to to play them, and the meal is a signed seating and Joseph has placed them in order from oldest to youngest. [laughter] That's another mind game. And get this, Joseph had the chef and the servers give Benjamin five times the food portions that everyone else received. So, Joseph is just observing to see if favoritism still makes the brothers blood boil or if they truly love Benjamin and they've changed. We could sum up chapter 43 with the word repentance. Joseph is seeing signs that these guys have changed. That's the actual meaning of the word repentance. When you repent, you change directions. You're going one way and now you head the other way. In the past, you've moved toward jealousy and envy, but now you're moving toward mercy and love. Did you notice that the first time Joseph tested his brothers with adversity and now he tests them with prosperity, with this lavish meal? Joseph is observing how they treat one another, especially Benjamin on this visit. It comes time for them to leave and Joseph loads his brothers up with grain, but quietly he says to his steward, he said, "Put each man's silver back in their sack again in each one of them." And then he says this, "and hide my special silver cup in Benjamin's bag." Next morning, brothers head home. They're on their way home when all of a sudden Joseph's steward comes riding up and he says, "Hey!" He says, "Why have you repaid good with evil? My master's silver cup is missing." And the brothers are stunned. They're like, "What? Why are you looking at us? We we we didn't take anything." And this is what they say, "If any one of us has the cup, you can put them to death. Mhm. That's how certain they were. And the steward replied, "No. Don't need to put all of you all to death. Only the man who has the cup will become my master's slave." They said, "Go ahead, search our stuff. Make yourself at home. Knock yourself out." The brothers are feeling like, "Man, I can't believe it. This guy doesn't trust us." But then, the TSA agent comes to the last bag. And it belongs to Benjamin. And in that instant, they dig into Benjamin's bag, and out comes Joseph's special silver cup. And the Bible says that the brothers are so overcome with shock and emotion that they ripped their clothes. It's an expression of utter anguish. And in disbelief, they start the journey back to Joseph's house. And when they stand before Joseph, they throw their youngest brother Benjamin down on the ground and say, "Here's your thief. He fooled us, Your Excellency, but he's an embarrassment to the family. Make a slave out of him. Take his life. We don't care what you do." No. No, that's not what he says. He says just the opposite. They fall down and they bow down before Joseph. And here's what they say. They know Benjamin's life is on the line. They don't want him to have the kind of slavery that they sold their other brother into. Oh, man, I got goosebumps. And somebody steps forward. You know who it is? Judah. And Judah steps forward and he speaks. Remember, he's the one who promised his father. He said, "If anything happens to Benjamin, I'll bear the blame." He [snorts] says in verse 16, "What can And say? God has uncovered our guilt. We are now your slaves." Notice that he keeps using we language throughout his whole speech. He doesn't say he or him, Benjamin. He says, "We." He lumps himself in. Judah isn't abandoning Benjamin. He's standing with him. Then comes one of the greatest speeches in all of Genesis. He says, "I guaranteed the boy's safety to my father." So he says, "Please let your servant remain here as my lord's slave in place of the boy. Let the boy return home." What Judah is saying is don't make my father endure this heartbreak. Take me instead. Please don't miss this moment. 20 years earlier, Judah had sold one brother into slavery to save himself. Now he's willing to become a slave to save his brother. [snorts] It's interesting that it's Judah that speaks up. Because 1,700 years later, one of Judah's descendants would step forward for us. Jesus, the spotless lamb of God, would say in effect, "Hey, I know the wages of sin is death." He'd look at his father and say, "Don't punish them. Take me instead." And he went to the cross. And Jesus stayed on the cross because he loves you. And that's the gospel. The innocent became the substitute for the guilty so that the guilty could go free. That's our story. And in the chapter of 42, the word was conviction. In 43, it was repentance. In 44, the word is sacrifice. [snorts] If a price needs to be paid, Judah will pay that price. He says, "You can take my life instead. I'll be his sacrificial substitute." And it's quite evident to Joseph that these brothers are quite different. They're not throwing Benjamin under the bus. They're even willing to take his punishment. Sacrifice is giving up something that you love for something that you love more. [snorts] And Judah loved Benjamin more than himself. Husbands, listen to me. Husbands, when you chose to get married, you were saying the same thing. Ephesians 5:25, "Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her." That's a sacrificial love. Christians, when you accepted Jesus as your Lord and Savior, you made the same commitment. That Jesus would be number one. That he sits on the throne. That he calls the shots. That means that you may have to sacrifice some things. Like that promotion where they'll expect you to cut some ethical corners. Your popularity with your friends. You might have to sacrifice that relationship that seems to be heading toward marriage, but it takes you away from the Lord. You might need to sacrifice and give up your reputation as the party animal. Sacrifice is at the heart of being a believer. Well, Jesus Joseph Joseph is about to reveal his identity. The moment of truth is about to drop the jaws of this group of brothers. Have you ever tried to conceal your identity? The timing wasn't right to reveal who you were or or maybe where you work. About a month ago, I was flying back to Louisville after a speaking trip and Beth was picking me up and down at baggage claim, I ran into several Southeast families who had been traveling together. Saw a couple that I had married about 25 years ago. Saw a young young gal who I had baptized. I had fun catching up with about a dozen of them. And miraculously, my suitcase came out quickly. And so I said goodbye and I headed up the long escalator to departures because Beth picks me up up at departures because there's not as much traffic up there. So as I'm riding up the escalator, I'm near the top. I'm texting Beth and just as I hit send, my suitcase slips off of the step beside me. And instantly, this hard-shell suitcase starts heading south, bouncing its way down 24 steps in 3 seconds flat. It sounds like a series of gunshots. This is not good. At the bottom, it is catapulted out of the narrow shoot like it had been fired from a cannon. It slides across the tile floor about 15 ft. Praise the Lord that there wasn't a World Cup soccer player nearby because if that that suitcase would have nudged their leg. Oh, I cannot imagine. I cannot imagine the injury that would have occurred from that. Well, I ran up the final two steps of the escalator and I turned around and started running down the dozens of stairs and I got to a landing about halfway down and I stopped immediately because I realized that there was a wall shielding me from everyone in baggage claim. And I realized if I took any more steps, the dozen Southeast members who were there would discover the identity of the imbecile who had launched the suitcase heard round the world. Well, as I glanced down right before me, there were two airport personnel. They have encircled my bag. I froze on the landing and I just kind of safely hollered up and said, "Hey, that's mine. Would you just just put that on the on the first step of the escalator and you can just send it back up?" And in their mind, everything is going off. If you see any unattended luggage, please inform a law enforcement officer. So, I'm trying to convince them that it's okay and they look at me and say, "We're not touching that." And so, I'm like, "Oh, no. I know what's going to happen now. My identity is about to become public knowledge." So, I left the safety of the landing and my reputation descended with me. Everyone was watching and wondering, "Terrorist or doofus? Terrorist or doofus?" When the Southwest group saw that it was me, they collectively gasped and then they erupted into laughter. Not a polite chuckle, mind you, but full-blown cackling and mockery. And I picked up my suitcase and the airport workers seemed relieved that I was even willing to touch it. And then I looked over at the the dirty dozen. And with a face as red as a stop sign, I said, "Ha, ha, that's [laughter] that's what I get for texting on an escalator. Ha, ha." And they laughed at me, but not with me. All right? There are crazy moments of truth when our identity is revealed and when the truth comes out in those moments, will we receive mercy or ridicule? Well, Joseph has watched them pass every test with flying colors and as chapter 45 begins, Joseph is so overwhelmed with emotion. He's just heard Judah say, "Take me instead." He can't keep his identity a secret any longer. The Bible says that he dismisses everyone from the room and all of Pharaoh's household can hear him wailing and crying. This is not a good sign. The brothers have to be thinking, "Oh, no. This does not look good for us. We're going to be shackled or slaughtered and maybe both." The DraftKings odds have started shifting quickly when Joseph starts crying. The betting line for either Benjamin or Judah's demise is skyrocketing. But Joseph has seen the change in these guys and he wants to remove this burden of guilt that his brothers have been carrying. He's choosing to show mercy over malice. And Joseph is about to step down from the landing and reveal his identity. How will the 11 respond? "I am Joseph." he says. In the same breath he says, "Is dad still alive?" I like the next verse, verse three. But his brothers were not able to answer him because they were terrified at his presence. That's the understatement of the century. There's this silence rooted in fear. And Joseph wants to make doubly sure that they haven't been lying about their dad. Look at the next verses. He has to go through it all again. Joseph said to his brothers, "Come close to me." When they had done so, he said, "I am your brother Joseph, the one you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me here because it was to save lives that God sent me ahead of you. But God. Aren't they your favorite words in the Bible? But God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. He's not going to kill them. He's not going to imprison them. He's not going to enslave them. Joseph is saying God allowed this to happen. Joseph has taken the high road and he chooses to interpret the entire story through God's sovereignty rather than through his brother's cruelty. God's providence is greater than human evil. Joseph will later say, "What you intended for evil, God worked and meant for good." He is choosing to extend forgiveness. Forgiveness is releasing my right to retaliate. That's what forgiveness is. And Joseph says, "I'm going to send you all back home with grain and food and carts and donkeys because I want you to bring dad back. I want you to bring your families back and all of your kids. And I'm going to give you the best of all the land and you can live here with me." He says, "Don't worry about bringing any of your belongings back with you because you will have the best of everything when you all return. And even though there's five more years of famine, he says, 'I got you covered, bro.'" Wow. Just wow. Mercy means the most when it is deserved the least. Think of each chapter, conviction, repentance, sacrifice equals grace. Grace is the word for chapter 45. Anyone that you need to extend some grace to? Our sinful nature wants revenge. We plot our plan to retaliate so that they get what's coming to them. Retaliation over reconciliation. But Joseph responds so differently. I mean, think about the whole scene. When famine strikes the land, Joseph's brothers make a desperate journey to Egypt searching for help and hope. They find both in the most unlikely place from the most unlikely person and instead of revenge, he chose restoration. Someone said we're most like beasts when we kill. We're most like humans when we judge, but we're most like God when we forgive. And in a plot twist only God could write, family wounds are healed. What is impossible with man is possible with God. God is still in the business of healing old hurt and restoring what has been broken. Some of you have been so deeply wounded. Some of you physically, some of you emotionally. I I I don't minimize that. But Jesus calls us to forgive. And I know that I am speaking to people who have [snorts] endured some some pretty horrific things in your life. And I'm not discounting that. Trust me, I I get it. I've I've I've been there on a smaller scale, but I've been there. And you're looking at me and you want to say, "Well, tell me, Dave, why should I forgive?" Well, we're commanded to in scripture. It's emotionally unhealthy for you. Bitterness raises your stress, your heart rate. It's like drinking poison and waiting for the other person to die. All it does is eat you up. What was helpful to me in dealing with with this struggle is something that Dr. Henry Cloud said. [snorts] He said, "Control what you can control, and what you can't, surrender to God." Life's too short to let someone else's behavior mess up your life and affect your present and future. Let go of that injustice. Can I give you one more reason to forgive? Matthew 6:14-15 Jesus said, "For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins." Those are difficult words, but they're Jesus' words. They're not my words. [clears throat] And if Jesus says if you don't forgive others of their sins, your Father won't forgive your sins, then he means that. Jesus has kept every promise. I'm not saying that you have to like that person, but you need to try to love them. Doesn't mean that you remove the legal punishments or the consequences of their actions, but it begins with asking God to help you start that process of letting go. I'm certain it was a long process for Joseph that took years sitting in a prison, being in slavery. Satan loves to use unforgiveness and bitterness to his advantage because the longer that you hold on to that resentment, the more difficult it is for you to let go. You think you're holding the other person hostage when you withhold forgiveness, but just the opposite occurs. It's like being in prison, and we live behind the bars of bitterness. Let me put Joseph's words from Genesis 45:7 back on the screen. I want you to look at them again. This is Joseph's words, "But God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to save your lives for a great deliverance." Joseph said that. But I want you to see Jesus could have said the very same thing. God sent me ahead of you. That's the Christmas story. To save your lives. That's Good Friday on the cross. To come and live with me at my home. That's the hope of Easter Sunday. We have hope beyond the grave. We have an eternal home in heaven with a forgiving God. So the forgiveness that God has extended to you, will you extend to someone else?
