male announcer: In Touch,
the teaching ministry of Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on "In Touch," "Solving
Problems Through Prayer." Dr. Stanley: Becoming a
Christian doesn't mean that that's the end of your problems. What it means is that you have a
powerful asset in helping you solve the problems. Now, sometimes there
are small issues in our life, sometimes they get
pretty big, and sometimes they seem rather insurmountable
and almost impossible. And when they do, how
do you respond to that? Well, people respond in
different ways, oftentimes the wrong way. And what I want to do in this
message is to show you how to respond in the right way to face
every single problem that comes your way, because
there'll never be a time when there are no problems. We live in a fallen world,
there's sin everywhere. People mistreat you one day and
love you the next, walk away one day, tell you this
forever this day. And on and on it goes the
promises and all the things that happen in life. So there are going
to be problems. The issue is how
do I handle them? Well, there is a
way to handle them. So I want you to listen
carefully and I want to encourage you to write down
eight sentences that I want to give you. Now, you may usually just sort
of sit at home or wherever you're listening or watching and
think I'm just gonna watch this, see what happens. It'd be very wise if you
would write down only these eight sentences
because they're a pattern. It's a key. It's one thing to
respond to life and just how I feel at the moment. It's something else to have a
pattern to go by, something that I know that works, something
that I know that involves God and whatever I'm facing in life. So I want you to turn, if
you will, to 2 Chronicles. And I want to give you a little
background of this chapter because most of what we're
gonna say involves most of the chapter, but not all of it. But the pattern is here, and I
think about how awesome God is to give us such clear direction when we face whatever
the circumstance may be. So let me give you a little
background of what's happening. Jehoshaphat is the king of
Judah, and he's a good king. And God has blessed
them in lots of ways. And so now he's reigning
well and he gets this news. The news is there are three
tribes in this 20th chapter. He said, "The sons of Moab
and Ammon, together with the Meunites, came to make war
against Jehoshaphat." And so there are three
armies together. So he's outnumbered and he
realizes that at first. And what this chapter is all
about is how Jehoshaphat responds to a problem that
is way over his head. There is no simple solution to
it because they are outnumbered three to one, maybe more than that depending
upon the nature and the size of those armies. And so the issue is
how does he respond? And in looking at his response,
what we find is we find a pattern, a pattern for all of us who are
facing problems, whether they're little problems or big problems,
insurmountable ones, it seems, and things that seem impossible. Listen carefully because these
things are very simple, but every one of them is important. Whatever problem you face, whatever it may be, ever how
large, ever how small, how painful, how strenuous,
how unpredictable, God is interested
in your problem. He's interested in your problem. And it's very evident here in
this particular passage because what happens is as soon as
this news comes, here's what Jehoshaphat does. "Jehoshaphat was afraid. He turned his attention to seek
the LORD, and proclaim the fast throughout all Judah." And then he gives us this
awesome prayer that we'll come to a little bit later. What I want you to see is if he
did not believe that God was interested in what he was
facing, that would not have been the first thing he
would have done. So think about this, whatever
you're facing at this moment, or any moment as a child of the
Lord Jesus Christ, as a follower of Christ, He is personally
interested in your problem and what you're facing,
no matter what it is. And part of the problem,
oftentimes, people say, "I pray and pray and pray." If you don't believe that God's
interest or if you believe God's too busy, your problem is too
small, you're too insignificant, therefore, God isn't paying
any attention to you, if that's your feeling, then
you're not gonna believe that. And if you don't believe that
He's interested, then just mouthing prayers are
not gonna do any good. Bottom line, He's interested. The second thing that fits this
pattern is this: God is greater than your problem. It doesn't make any
difference what it is. It doesn't make any difference
how long it's been in your life. He is absolutely, listen, He is
greater than that problem no matter what it may be. So the reason this is so
important is because what Jehoshaphat and Judah were
facing, they were facing this innumerable group of tribes that
were going to destroy them, not just invade them, but destroy
them, take everything that they had. And when I come to thinking
about God's promises and how He does take care of us, I think
about this 32nd chapter of Jeremiah when he
says, "Our Lord God! Behold, You have made the
heavens and the earth by Your great power and by
Your outstretched arm! Nothing is too
difficult for You." Do you believe that? Do you believe that He's
interested in your problem? Do you believe that He's
bigger than your problem? Do you think that there's
something going on in your life that's bigger than God? When you come to Him with doubts
and fears and anxieties and all the rest, He doesn't get upset. If I'm willing to confess that
Jesus Christ is the Lord of my life and trust Him as my
personal Savior, I have this assurance. My God, He is interested in
everything that concerns me. He's greater than every single
thing that disturbs or bothers me no matter what it is. That's the bottom line. God is interested in what
you're walking through. In fact, He's greater than what
you're walking through, which means He can walk
you through it. He's gonna get you through it,
and I can tell you, it doesn't make a difference
what you're facing. God, who loves you
unconditionally, will get you through it no matter
what, mark it down. That's who He is. And the third thing is this. We're gonna respond to these
things in certain ways, and our first response
certainly should be to seek the Lord. And this is exactly
what Jehoshaphat does. If you'll notice, for
example, in this 3rd verse, the 20th chapter, the
Scripture says, "Jehoshaphat was afraid, turned his
attention to seek the LORD and proclaimed a
fast throughout all Judah." First thing he did
was to seek the Lord. Now, the reason I know
that that was his habit, that wasn't something
that he just did one time, is because he says:
"There is some good in you, for you have removed the
Asheroth from the land and you have set
your heart to seek God." So let me ask you a question. Have you ever decided in your
life, "I'm gonna make a priority in my life of seeking the Lord"? When you began to seek the
Lord, here's what happens. Your problems get stunted, they get smaller and
smaller and smaller for the simple reason God's
becoming larger and larger and larger in your thinking. This awesome, great, omnipotent,
omniscient, omnipresent God, you have made a
choice to seek Him. You seek Him first. And you see, isn't it
interesting that oftentimes people will go to all kinds of
extremes to find a solution to something, and then as a last
resort, which should be a first choice, they finally go to God. Well, have you thought
about praying that? "Well, I have thought about it." Well, a person who's walking in
the Spirit's not going to think in terms of that, but first of
all, you're going to respond by what? Seeking the Lord. Now, when I say take a position,
I mean, just remind yourself. Now, the first word
out of your mouth, I just give you this
as a suggestion. It's what he did, he didn't use
this word, but when a problem hits us, the first word that
comes out of our mouth should be "Father, Father." When you do that, you have
already set a sense of direction of how you're gonna
deal with this issue. What you're doing is
you're inviting Him in. Now, of course, He already
understands all the details. When you say, "Father," what
you're saying, you're inviting God with all of His supernatural
power and all of His love and devotion to you. You're inviting Him into your
life to deal with this issue. This is what, this is
what Jehoshaphat did. He called upon the Lord,
it's the first thing he did. Interested?
Yes, God is interested. Bigger than the problem? Yes, He's bigger
than the problem. And our first response,
therefore, should be to seek Him. Then, of course, it may
be that God wants to involve other people in our
prayers about our problems. Notice I said He may want
to involve other people. And oftentimes, that is what He
would desire to do, but I want to show you why in a
couple of warnings. Now, the first thing Jehoshaphat
did was, the Scripture says, he sought the Lord and proclaimed
a fast throughout all Judah. "So Judah gathered together to
seek help from the LORD; they even came from the cities of
Judah to seek the LORD." That is, he knew this issue-- listen, it wasn't
just his problem. It was the problem
of his whole nation. And oftentimes the things that
affect us affect our families, affect the people that we love
or affect the church or affect the nation, or
whatever it might be. And so he called upon all of
Judah to meet and fast and pray for God to deliver them. Now, when I think about that,
I think about why he does it. And if somebody called upon
you to help them pray through something and God just did a
wonderful work in their life, it strengthened your faith. So, there are two things here. He calls--he calls us to call
upon others sometimes because it gets them involved in what we're
going through, it strengthens their faith, and it teaches them
something about God. If you, listen, if I pray for
you and you're healed or you're blessed or you're helped
in some fashion and I see that, then when I have
my own problem, I've got your problem to remind me also,
listen, You did it for them, You'll do it for me. And that's why God's people
should be involved in each other's life as the situation
arises and is a proper time and a proper way, because what
happens is we grow by watching God deal in other
people's lives. Well, something else I want you
to notice, and that's this, and that is God will give us a
solution to our problem. Now, think about
it in this light: if God is willing to give us His
Son to die the cross for our sins and to forgive
us of our sins, if He's willing to do that, will
He not give us an answer to our problems? Will He not enable us to solve
those problems through His guidance and direction? Sure, He will. It isn't that God wants
to keep anything from us. You say, "Well, now, I do
believe that God hears and answers and so forth, and--but
sometimes He doesn't always answer these when
I want Him to." So let's talk about
that for a moment. A word of caution: He may delay the
answer, and it's not because God doesn't care. It's not because He doesn't
intend to answer it, but He delays the answer for this reason, one of the
reasons He delays the answer is, now watch this carefully. We think about, "Well, Lord,
everything looks fine, so let's get this answer." And so, He looks on the
inside, He looks at the heart. Watch this, He's more interested
in you're becoming a godly person, learning to follow Him
and to trust Him and to walk in His ways than He is in
solving your problem. Is the problem an issue?
Yes. Is He interested?
Yes. Bigger than the problem?
Yes. All those things?
Yes. But more than that, He's
interested in what you're becoming because
remember what He said. He predestined
you to become conformed to the
likeness of His Son. So that sometimes, when God
looks beyond your request and sees the pain and hurt in your
heart, He also sees something that should not be there. And He has this wonderful,
loving, but difficult way sometime for us for Him to just
wait until I get beyond just problem, problem, problem,
problem, problem, and begin to realize, "Well, Lord, there's
something in my life that I realize shouldn't be there." Watch this, He loves you too
much to give you what you want too quickly. He loves you too much to give
you what you want if you'll miss what He wants to
give you in return. And so when you think about why
He delays, sometimes He delays it because He wants to deal with
something that He knows, watch this carefully. He knows if He solves this
problem and He doesn't deal with this problem, this problem
is going to crop up again. He's an all-wise God, who knows
exactly how to deal with our issues and problems in life. Then of course, our
prayers are to be God-centered and not
problem-centered. And I want you to
notice the prayer that he prayed here. Listen to this,
Scripture says, "He stood in the assembly
and he said," and I want you to notice all
the references to God. "O Lord, the God of our
fathers, are You not God in the heavens? And are You not ruler
over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in
Your hands so that no one can stand
against You." Then he says, "Did You
not in the past, O our God, drive out the
inhabitants of this land," and so forth, and
he goes on about that. Then he says the 12th
verse, "Our God, will You not judge them? For we are powerless before this
great multitude who are coming against us; nor do we even know
what to do, but our eyes are upon You." His prayer was about
God and His power and His might, and what He
had done in the past and what He was willing
to do in their lives. When you're
talking about God, here's what's
happening. The more you talk about
God, the smaller the size the problem
becomes, because what happens is the Spirit
of God is resurrecting within you the
awareness and the faith that you have that
oftentimes gets buried under difficulty. He's resurrecting that faith and
you begin to believe God and trust God, your feelings
begin to change, your attitude begins to change. God transforms our lives often
in the midst of our problems. It's God-centered. It's very evident that that
his prayer is God-centered here and not man-centered. And so, what happens is we begin
to focus on His resources, His love, His greatness, His power,
and the problem begins to get smaller and smaller and smaller. And then, of course,
God's solution usually requires an act of faith. As I think about things that I
faced in life, almost always, if it's a major issue, it's
going to challenge my faith in some fashion. So here's what happens. So, this prophet stands up and
says, "This is not your battle, this is God's battle." And in the process of saying
that, then God gives them direction as to what to do. He says, "Here's what you do,
this battle is not yours. Assemble the choir. Assemble the orchestra. And then behind them,
array your army. And then tomorrow, you start
marching, and as you march, the choir sings and praises God." That's what he said. They're praising the Lord. They're talking about Jehovah. They're talking about Jehovah,
the Great One, Jehovah their God, the Creator, the--in
other words, they're praising God and singing praises to God. Now, this is a
real act of faith. I don't know how big a choir
you would have had on this day, right? But the choir was going to face
the battle with the army, and they weren't gonna fight, they
were gonna sing and praise God. Did it take an act of faith? Yes, it did. They marched, they sang,
and what did God do? He confused the army so that two
of them attacked one, and when they finished wiping them out,
the two of them attacked each other in such confusion, it
might have been a nighttime, whatever it might have been. And when Judah got there, when
the nation got there, all the enemy were dead. Suppose he'd have said, "No way,
we couldn't possibly do that. We're going into battle, we're
gonna trust You, but we're gonna fight." And sometimes you and I may look
at our problems, say, "God, there's no way." If He tells you to do it,
watch this, the victory is already won. When He tells you to do it,
the victory is already won. He's not gonna lead
you into some defeat. And the issue is, am I
willing to trust Him? When He asked me to do something
that seems impossible or difficult, am I gonna trust Him? And that's the difference in Him
solving the problem and not. And then, of course, the last
thing I would say is this, God's solution is always best. No matter what the problem may
be, you could never solve it like God can solve it, because
you don't know all the ins and outs. You don't know what happened
before, sometimes years before. You don't know what
the surroundings are. You don't know what the
environment's really like. You only know what you see and
you feel and how limited we are. God's, listen, God's solution is
always the best one if you're willing to trust Him. So I would simply ask
you this question. Whatever you're facing in life
today, do you believe that God is interested in your pain and
your heartache, your suffering, your problem? Do you believe that
He's bigger than that? Do you believe He
wants to solve it? Are you willing for Him to do
it His way and His timing? Are you willing to
surrender your life to Him and just say, "God,
I don't get it. I don't understand at all, but I know that You're a
God of awesome power. I know that You know everything
that needs to be known and that I don't understand. I may not like Your timing,
but I'm going to trust You. I'm going to obey. I'm gonna watch You
work in my life. This is an opportunity, Lord,
for You to demonstrate Your power in my life, and it's also
an opportunity for me to learn, for me to grow, for me to
understand You better, for me to know You in a far deeper way"? Problems can be awesome pathways
to spiritual growth that good times will never provide. Everybody's going through one,
sooner or later sometime or the other, and the society in which
you and I live, most people have problems. The tragedy is, watch this, they don't know what
to do about it. And just praying, "Oh God
help me, help me, help me." Listen, I've given you
eight simple sentences. You cannot lose if you
follow those eight steps. So, here's what happens. After a while when problems
arise, you won't fret and fear. You just see them as
opportunities for God to grow you up. And if you get along in your
life and everything is just going your way and you have no
needs, and everybody does what you wanna do, and on and on,
life gets a little monotonous, what you need is a good problem. It is because you can become
very, very comfortable in your plenty. And a good problem gets
us back on track, amen? You say, "Well, I'm
not even a Christian." I want to go back for
a moment to say this. None of this will work for you. Because you see, you can't
reject the Father, can't reject the Son and expect His awesome
power to come into your life. And I would challenge you to ask
the Lord Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sins. Here's what you ask Him for. Ask Him to forgive you for
rejecting Him all these years. And tell Him that you want to
receive Christ as your Savior, and you're trusting
Him as your Savior. Change your life forever. And I do mean for eternity. Father, how grateful we
are for Your love for us. Thank You for Jehoshaphat, years
and years and years ago, didn't know what he was doing when
he responded the right way. Teach us how to respond the
right way to every problem we face in Jesus's name, amen. ♪♪♪