We are in the restoration business. Part of why the Church of Jesus Christ exists is to restore. God's normal way of working is through his people for the improvement of his people. And so that is why people are to gather as part of the family of God, not just for a sermon, not just for a song, but to be healed or to be a healer.

Far too many churches have settled into be hospices. Set up to make people comfortable. When God created us to be hospitals. To make people better. Far too many people will come to church just to salve their religious conscience. Not necessarily because they want to improve, heal, or become better followers of Jesus Christ. And unfortunately, many churches have accommodated this hospice mentality.

And instead of hospitals, they becomes spiritual event centers. Where people come for their weekly show.

The show from the pulpit, the show from the choir, the show from the singing, and when the show is over, they go about their lives until next week, same time, showtime.

Paul in chapter six of the book of Galatians speaks to this church who has been infiltrated by a group of people called Judaizers. The Judaizers were the legalists of the day, and they were they were holding these Christians hostage to the Old Testament law that they were unable to satisfy as a way for them to measure their spirituality. And Paul has to correct this false teaching that has infiltrated the church of Galatia taking away the freedom of the saints to be all that God had created them to be. And in chapter 6, the first five verses that we have read, he gives an assignment to the church. And an assignment to every member of the church because the word you in verse 1 is plural. So, he is not speaking to just an individual. He's not just speaking to you, he's speaking to y'all. That is, to the collective gathering of saints to talk about our hospital care. Talk about this healing environment spiritually that the church is to provide if it's going to be an authentic hospital and not a hospice event center.

He says in verse 1 of chapter 6, brethren. So, I'm talking to Christians. Fellow saints. Even if anyone is caught in a trespass, restore such a one. A trespass is a sin. He says, if somebody is caught in a sin, meaning they are stuck in a sin that they can't get out of. They have a an addiction, a stronghold, a set of circumstance that is holding them hostage and they can't break away.

Some of us have been in those situations. We all know people who are in those situations where they are trapped and they can't get out. He says, "YOUR JOB IS TO RESTORE such a one." In other words, to unhook them FROM THE THING THAT'S TRAPPED THEM that they can't get out of. That is one of the fundamental roles of the church body of believers is to be a restorative agency

for people who are in circumstances and situations that they're unable to hook themselves from. The Greek word for restore means to reset a broken bone or to restitch a torn net.

It was used of mending something that had gotten frayed in some form OR FASHION. WHAT GOD SAYS IS, "I WANT YOU in the family of God to be a place where folk who've been tore up from the floor up, folk who've been broken can come and know THAT THERE ARE DOCTORS AND NURSES WHO ARE THERE and one of their purposes is to fix that which is broken." One of the spiritual responsibilities of believers in personally and THE HOUSE OF GOD collectively is where broken people who are stuck and caught in circumstances and sins that they are unable to get out of, there is a place that they can go where healing is part of the reason why they are there. He says, "Restore such a one." But he gives a qualification. HE SAYS IN VERSE ONE, "You who are spiritual restore such a one." He says, "I want you who are spiritual to restore such a one." What does it mean to be spiritual? To be spiritual means you're operating by the spirit. And in order to know whether you're operating by the spirit, it means you're operating according to the word. So, you're operating according to the word, which means you're operating by means of the spirit, which means the spirit can intercede based on the word to bring healing into the life of the person who's caught or broken because of sin and its effect. He says, "You who are spiritual based on the word, which then the Bible calls the spirit, the spirit of truth, who only operates on the word, who uses the person who's operating with the truth in the life of the person who needs to be restored in order for them to get the healing that they have come to the hospital spiritually to receive." He says, "You who are spiritual restore

such a one." In other words, we are in the restoration business. PART OF WHY the Church OF JESUS CHRIST EXISTS is to restore. Now, he talks about two groups of people in verse one. He talks about the person needing to be restored, and he talks about the spiritual persons who are doing the restoring. So, this place SHOULD BE MADE UP OF ONE of two people. People who have come because they're trapped in something they can't get out of, and people who are spiritual enough TO HELP GET them out of it because they love the word, operate by the spirit in order to bring divine help to release the person for that which is holding them illegitimately hostage. He says, "I want you to do this." And the reason why you want to do this with spiritual people is that you've got to operate with truth. See, and that's what spiritual people do. They appeal to the truth. That's why he said in verse one, restore such a one in the spirit of gentleness. In the spirit of gentleness. In other words, don't hurt the person more. In other words, when you're trying to help somebody who's caught, who's stuck, you're not trying to make them more caught and more stuck because you are sticky. He says you do it with the spirit of gentleness. You've seen a doctor use a scalpel. They take their time to make the cut. They're not slashers. Cuz they're not trying to hurt more. They're trying to to be as careful as they possible while still dealing with the problem. You see, because restoring doesn't condone wrong. Con- restoring doesn't cover up what's really going on, but restoring seeks to fix it based on the truth of the problem that is seeking to be addressed. He says, I want you to restore with the spirit of gentleness. That is, it becomes inextricably clear I'm here to help. Paul says to people to the church of Corinth in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 14, where he was correcting on issues, he says, I don't say this for your shame. I'm not trying to embarrass you. I'm not trying to hurt you. I'm just saying this cuz I want to help you and I want to encourage you. So, we are to be in the business of restoration, but the business of restoration done in such a way where people know we care about their improvement. In all of our lives, things can get crooked. And we need some folks to put some braces on us. So, that they get back in alignment, so that things get straight again. But he says, don't just try Try when you do it. Try to help when you do it. With the spirit he calls the spirit of gentleness, the spirit that is seeking to use spiritual truth with a kind heart in order to bring healing to a situation because sometimes you can get trapped in things you don't want to be trapped in. But like the lady in the commercial who says, "I fell down, but I can't get up." And that happens to many people over time in many different ways. He says, "You who are spiritual, I want you to be a hospital. I want you to be a place where healing occurs because there are doctors and nurses and technicians that are spiritual people who understand one of their roles in being part of the family of God is to help the hurting. That's why if you only show up to show up, if you only show up to be helped, but not to help, then you don't understand the nature of the church. It's not an event center for a weekly event. It is a place where caring people care for people and are being cared for themselves. So, he says, "This is what I want you to do. If you've ever seen a dog wrapped around a pole, and the dog is trying to get unwrapped, but it's tightening itself more cuz it doesn't understand it's got to go this way to unwrap, so it keeps pulling this way to try to get out from around the pole, but it can't get out. It needs somebody to re-steer it back in the right direction so it can be released from the trap it keeps tightening on its own. He says, "That is one of the reasons why the church exist, and the way God releases restoration is through his people. Yeah, he can do it directly, and sometimes he does, but that's not his normal way of doing it. God's normal way of working is through his people for the improvement of his people. He says, "I want you who are spiritual to restore such a one, to bring them back in alignment." We are God's jaws of life. And if you've seen the jaws of life when there's been a car accident, you've seen this big utensil come in, but they have to be careful cuz the person is trapped. So, they have to be careful in how they do it so that the person is not hurt more. So, they work in in tandem with carefulness because they want to release the person, but they want to do it in such a way where not more damage occurs.

So, he says, "This is what I want you to do. I want you to be this kind of environment." But then he says something else. In verse two, he says, "Bear one another's burdens and thereby fulfill the law of Christ." A burden is not a sin. He deals with sins in verse one. A trespass, that's a sin, verse one. A burden is a load, a weight.

Something too heavy to carry on your own. He says, "Bear one another's burdens."

A burden is when life has gotten too heavy. When the weight of what you're dealing with is too much for you to bear. When the problems have just mounted and mounted on top of each other. The losses have mounted and mounted on top of each other. The financial needs have accumulated more and more on top of each other. The emotional pressure that you're feeling, you think you're going to lose your mind because all of this pressure is on you. You feel this weight of life on you. That's a burden. He says, "Bear one another's burden." And when you have lived long enough AND YOU HAVE GONE THROUGH ENOUGH, YOU WILL HIT the time in your life when it becomes WEIGHTY TO BE ALIVE. WEIGHTY to deal with all of these problems, ALL OF THESE DIFFICULTIES, ALL OF THESE CHALLENGES, ALL OF THESE HURTS, and you going TO NEED A SPOTTER. HE SAYS, "BEAR ONE ANOTHER'S BURDEN." IN OTHER WORDS, be a spotter until you need to be a spottee. In other words, MAKE SURE THAT YOU ARE AVAILABLE TO SERVE, TO HELP SOMEBODY ELSE WHO'S UNDER THE LOAD OF LIFE, because there's coming a time when the load will be too much for you to bear. Because that's how life is sometimes. IT BECOMES WEIGHTY. HEAVY. And too much to handle. And you can talk spiritual all day, you know, God is good all the time, all the time God is good, and Jesus can fix it, and all that. All that's true. But the way he does it, normally, is through his people. That's his normal way of doing it. So, if his people aren't right, the people with problems are in trouble.

Because they've decided to be a hospice, not a hospital. He says, "Bear one another's burdens."

Come alongside and help people carry the weight. To carry the load that is weighing them down. And so, he says, "If anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself." Verse three. God's translation of that is, "You ain't all that and a bag of chips." All right. Okay. Don't think you good, too good to help somebody else. That's why he says in verse 1, "Watch out for yourself lest you be in the same position that this person is in who you're refusing to help." Don't think YOU ARE ALL THAT, THAT YOU'RE TOO GOOD TO BE A SERVANT. Too good.

TOO BIG, TOO YOU HAVE TOO MANY TITLES IN FRONT OF YOUR NAME THAT YOU CAN'T BE A SERVANT.

That you can't BE USED OF GOD TO HELP SOMEBODY ELSE. NOBODY IS THAT IMPORTANT. HE SAYS, "AND THE ONLY PERSON YOU'RE FOOLING IS YOURSELF." CUZ GOD KNOWS YOU AIN'T ALL THAT. AND LET LIFE GO LEFT ON YOU LONG ENOUGH AND YOU'LL DISCOVER YOU'RE NOT ALL THAT.

He says, "YOU ARE DECEIVING NOBODY BUT YOURSELF." IF YOU'VE GOT THIS SELF MENTALITY, "I'M too good for that." I don't I don't have to serve. I don't have to be caring about anybody else. I'm concerned about three people, me, myself, and I. He says, "You have tricked yourself. You have fooled yourself."

So, we're dealing with restoring on two levels. Releasing somebody releasing somebody who's caught in a sin or somebody who's under the load. Relieving them. So, release or relieving. We should all be available to be used of God to release somebody caught or to relieve somebody who's under the load. That's what it means to belong to the family of God. And that's what it means to what he says, fulfill the law of Christ. Mhm. What is the law of Christ? James chapter uh uh two calls it the royal law. It's the law of love. The law of Christ is the law of love. He says, "I want you to fulfill the law of Christ, complete the law of Christ." You fulfill the law of Christ not by just saying, "I love the Lord." That's not fulfilling it, that's talking it. Fulfilling it is when you are relieving and releasing, releasing somebody caught or relieving somebody who's under the load. He says, "You are fulfilling the law of Christ." In other words, you are showing love, not talking love. Amen. Anybody can say, "I love God, and I love you, you love me." Those are cute words, but they must be married to biblical action. Love has not been uh

manifested until it's been demonstrated. And you demonstrate it by relieving and releasing the burden of others. In other words, God measures how much you love him by how much you're loving other members of his family. Amen. That is the measurement that God uses. And if he sees that you only come into church for you, you're only concerned about your blessing, you're only concerned about your miracle, you're only concerned about what God has done for you lately, you are not fulfilling the law of Christ. You're talking a good game, I'm talking a good game, but we're not walking a good game. And so, he says, "This is the dynamic of the people of God to relieve and release, that is to restore the lives of others." Now, he says, "Each one must examine his own work cuz this is the work he's called us to do and then he will have reason for boasting. He says if you want to be able TO BRAG ON HOW GREAT A CHRISTIAN you are, show me your work. Show me who you've cared about. Show me who you've served. Show me who was somebody down that you encouraged. Show me somebody who was sick in an illness you had and I got I let you get healed and now you have the opportunity to encourage them with your testimony on how I healed you so that they can know I can heal them. Tell me about the work you've been doing. Tell me about the person who was down who you encouraged. TELL ME ABOUT THE PERSON ON the sick list that you called. TELL ME ABOUT THE PERSON THAT YOU WALKED BESIDE BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHERE ELSE TO TURN. HE SAYS WHEN I SEE YOUR WORK, NOW WE CAN TALK ABOUT YOU BRAGGING. NOW YOU CAN CALL YOURSELF THE GOAT BECAUSE I'VE SEEN WHAT YOU'VE DONE, NOT JUST HEARD what you said. He says and then you will have reason to boast on yourself and not against the backdrop of somebody else.

You say well that sounds like a lot of work. That sounds like a lot of work. Okay. God is not asking you to do this for everybody. He's asking you to do this for somebody. All right, you can't you can't solve everybody's problem but if you got hundreds and thousands of people all reaching out, all touching another, all seeking opportunities to fulfill the royal law, nobody gets overloaded cuz everybody's doing a little that they can so everything is getting done because the whole family OF GOD IS TIED TO IT. He says it's he said something to help you out, help me out, help us out. For each one will bear his own load in verse number five. Oh, this is good news. He says, "You bear help bear the burden, but everybody has to bear their own load." Oh. In other words, you don't let other people give you the whole load. You help them with the burden, but you don't take the whole load. In other words, you don't let them off the hook for what they should be responsible FOR THEMSELVES. YOU HELP THEM WITH the burden, but they got to carry their own load. The Bible says we're to feed the poor. The Bible says we're to help the poor, but the Bible also says a man that does not work should should not eat. So, they can't say, "Feed me, feed me, feed me while I stay home." No. If you're ABLE-BODIED PERSON, YOU BETTER GO GET A JOB or I ain't feeding you no more. Okay? So, we are to help with the burden, but we're not to take the whole responsibility. And a lot of people will do that. There are a lot of people will try to use the sympathy of other Christians and the sympathy of churches to alleviate them of being responsible. And Paul says, "No, you don't go that far. You help lift the burden. You don't take the weight and say, 'Let me just lift the weight for you.'"

You say, "Why do this? Why Why? Why does this matter?" Well, here's why it matters. It matters because James says in James chapter 5 verse 19 and 20, that when we help a person, we save their lives. Now, that can be their physical life, can be their spiritual life, but he says, "When we come and we intervene in somebody who's caught in a sin, he says we save their lives. We We We keep it from going south further." You don't just let people, particularly fellow saints, go left. You let them go left and and you say, "Well, I I wish you the best." He says, "No." He says, "You save their lives because Satan wants to destroy them. Satan wants to kill them physically, spiritually. He wants to destroy their life."

God responds to Christians who intervene. Ah, this is important principle. For Christians who intervene to somebody to on another Christian who's going south and you intervene, it's called interposition. When you interpose yourself in the middle of that, Exodus chapter 4, God is going to kill Moses. He's going to take Moses' life because Moses has refused to to circumcise his son. And the Bible says in Exodus chapter 4 that Moses was God was on his way to kill Moses. But then it says his wife Zipporah intervened and went to her son and circumcised her before God got to Moses. God is on their way to kill Moses, but Zipporah interposes herself prior to God getting there. She circumcised her son and the Bible says, "And when God saw what Zipporah did, his wrath turned from Moses." His wrath turned from MOSES BECAUSE SOMEBODY LOVED HIM enough to interpose THEMSELVES BEFORE GOD HAD TO TAKE CARE of it themselves.

So, it is to save the life because we are to love one another enough to care about the consequences of sin.

And the bur- of burden. And because we're going to need that same interposition in our circumstance. YOUR JOB AND MY JOB, IF WE'RE GOING TO BE A REAL CHURCH and not a fake church, if we're going to be a hospital and not a hospice, it's to MAKE SURE WE'RE NOT MAKING THE THING WORSE. BECAUSE WE ARE A FAMILY THAT CARES ENOUGH ABOUT THE FAMILY OF God to be his AGENTS OF RESTORATION, WHETHER it's relieving or restoring in any possible capacity. First Peter chapter 4 VERSE 8 SAYS, "LOVE covers a multitude of sins." Love doesn't cover up, but love covers. IN OTHER WORDS, it doesn't make the situation worse. He says that if you do this, you are positioning yourselves, we are positioning ourselves to have something we can take to God. Uh last week I talked about Hezekiah. Hezekiah was dying. God says, "You're going to die." God then Hezekiah then prays to God, and he says to God this thing, "Remember the good I did." He says, "Remember the people I helped. Remember the kindness I showed." And when God remembered what he had done, before the prophet left the courtroom, the Bible says God changed his mind. One day you're going to face something where you need God to change his mind. You're going to face something where you're going TO NEED GOD TO REVERSE your situation. You're going to face something where you're GOING TO NEED GOD TO DEAL A DEATH BLOW TO SOMETHING COMING AGAINST YOU. AND HE'S GOING TO CHECK YOUR CREDIT REPORT. HE'S GOING TO CHECK YOUR KINDNESS REPORT. HE'S GOING TO CHECK YOUR MINISTRY REPORT. HE'S GOING TO SAY, "WELL, WELL, WELL, WELL, I TRIED TO GET YOU TO HELP SOMEBODY, BUT YOU WERE TOO BUSY. I TRIED TO GET YOU TO CARE FOR SOMEBODY, BUT YOU WERE TOO MUCH INTO YOURSELF. I TRIED TO GET YOU TO MINISTER, BUT YOU DIDN'T WANT TO SERVE. YOU JUST WANTED TO BE SERVED. BUT GOD, I NEED YOU TO INTERVENE FOR ME." WELL, GOD WANTS TO SEE YOU TO INTERVENE FOR OTHERS, SO THAT WHEN YOU NEED HIM TO INTERVENE FOR YOU, YOU GOT A CREDIT REPORT WITH A HIGH CREDIT SCORE.