WHEN GOD REALLY DOES SOMETHING, YOU CAN'T keep it to yourself. One of the reasons we don't testify is cuz we don't have a testimony. YOU GOT TO PIGGYBACK OFF OF THE TESTIMONY OF other folk cuz you don't have a testimony yourself. But when the Holy Spirit BEGINS DOING HIS WORK BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN TIED AND TETHERED to the truth of the kingdom, you going to have something to talk about. YOU GOING TO TESTIFY OF WHO GOD IS AND WHAT GOD HAS DONE.

[applause]
[music]

WHEN JESUS began his earthly ministry, he began with an opening phrase, "The kingdom of God is at hand." All throughout his ministry, he kept talking about this kingdom. This place of divine jurisdiction. The word kingdom, as we have stated many times, means rule or authority. It is the sphere of divine jurisdiction from which God rules. Sometimes it's called the kingdom of God when it's referring to the person. Sometimes it's called the kingdom of heaven when it's referring to the location. But in both cases, it's referring to the sphere of God's jurisdiction or rule.

When we open the book of Acts, Luke, the author of the book of Acts, writing to Theophilus, the man who helped fund his research. Luke was a physician and he was used to research and that's why in his writings you'll see a lot of research activity, evidently funded by Theophilus. It says from the time of Jesus' resurrection to the time of his ascension to heaven was 40 days. And during these 40 days, he taught them about the kingdom of God. So the very same message when he came on the scene at 30 years old, was the very same message after his death and resurrection that he wanted to communicate to those who would be taking the message after he left. And for 40 days, he taught them about the kingdom of God. We know they caught the message because biblical theology confirms it.

Systematic theology is concerned with the organization of biblical truths and biblical principles in a structure. Because you can't go to one place in the Bible and find all that the Bible says about that one subject in that one place. It's spread throughout the Bible. So in systematic theology, we organize it, we structure it. So if you want to find out about the attributes of God or the doctrine of Christ or bibliology, ecclesiology, eschatology, angelology, hamartiology, uh you if you want to find out about that, because it's spread out throughout the Bible, it has to be organized and we call that systematic theology. Biblical theology is different. Biblical theology is not concerned with pulling everything together that the Bible says on any one subject. Biblical theology is concerned with what this author said to this group of people at this time about said subject. So biblical theology is narrow from which we get systematic theology. The reason why biblical theology is important is it lets you see what specifically is being emphasized at a certain time in a certain book by a certain author on a certain subject.

Jesus has been speaking about the kingdom of God. The question is, did that catch? Cuz it says he was teaching his disciples. Did they grab it? So let's do a brief bibliocentric theological analysis of the book of Acts related to the subject of the kingdom of God. For example, Acts chapter 8, verse 12 says this. It says, "But when they believed, became Christians, Philip preaching the good news about the kingdom of God, the name of Jesus Christ, they were being baptized, men and women alike." Chapter 19, verse 8, "And he entered the synagogue and continued speaking out boldly for 3 months, reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God." Chapter 20, verse 25, "And now behold, I know that all of you among whom I went about preaching the kingdom will no longer see my face." Chapter 28, verse 23, "When they had set a day for Paul, they came to him at his lodging in large numbers and he was explaining to them by solemnly testifying about the kingdom of God and trying to persuade them concerning Jesus from both the law of Moses and from the prophets from morning until evening." And finally, chapter 28, verses 30 and 31, "And he stayed 2 full years in his own rented quarters and were welcoming all who came to him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all openness and unhindered."

So from a biblical theological framework, it is absolutely clear that the teaching on the kingdom of God that Jesus had done for the 40 days between his resurrection and his ascension, the apostles caught because they kept the theme going in the book of Acts when the church is being established. So don't get ticked off if I keep talking to you about the kingdom of God. It is the abiding theme of scripture, the abiding message of Jesus Christ, and the abiding message of the apostles in the New Testament because it is the theme of God's purpose in history and that is his kingdom. The kingdom is his sphere of jurisdiction, the place of his rule. The reason why Jesus taught them about the kingdom of God so that they would teach us about the kingdom of God is so that we would understand the governance of God's jurisdiction, God's rule, so that when errant thinking, errant ideas, errant philosophies, errant social orientation, when errant things come in, we understand what the rules of the house are. The rules, the jurisdiction of the kingdom. Because there is a competing kingdom. The Bible says we have been transferred out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. He says there is a dark kingdom, an evil kingdom, a secular kingdom, and it wants to impose itself and change house rules, change the sphere of the rule of God. So he says, "I'm going to teach you, apostles, about the kingdom. I want you, now that we've established the church, to teach the people about the rule of God." That the kingdom of God is not where reality is. Reality is in a world that leaves God out or adopts worldviews that are antithetical to the jurisdiction of the rule of God.

It said in the first verse I read in chapter 8 that when Philip taught them about the kingdom, he baptized them. Baptism means two things. It means first of all, I've accepted Jesus Christ as my substitute. I go down in the water. When I come back up, it is supposed to signify I am now operating under divine rule. I'm now under jurisdiction. I've been put into a new family, into a new realm, into a new sphere of dominance. Baptism means that I now belong to a new order. That I live in this world, but I am informed by the world of another. And he taught them about the kingdom of God. And the disciples then taught them about the kingdom of God. And we ought to teach about the kingdom of God so that when people are baptized, they understand they're under new rule. And so it is very concerning to God that his people become aware, become knowledgeable of the kingdom, the jurisdiction, the rule, the authority of God and have their flags planted there. Where it is clear the king resides here. That's what Joshua said in Joshua 24:15, as for me and my house. He said, "Y'all can do whatever you want in your house, but as for me and my crib we will serve the Lord. That's how we operate up in here, up in here." So, he wants us to give out the information about the kingdom. Why? Because he wants us to experience the power of the kingdom. He doesn't just want the information of the kingdom, he wants the power of the kingdom to be made manifest based on the information of the kingdom. He says, "You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you." The job of the spirit is to bring the reality of the new jurisdiction into our experience. The job of the Holy Spirit is to bring the reality of kingdom truth into the experience today.

Jesus said, "It is good if I leave so that the spirit could come." Told his disciples when he was in the upper room, "I got to go to my father, but I need to leave so the spirit can come." When Jesus was on Earth, the expression of his deity always operated in the location of his humanity. In other words, you could see his deity where his humanity was located. So, people got healed where he was. People got raised from the dead where he was. People heard the sermons where he was. In other words, where his body was, you saw the supernatural activity that he did. Because he limited the activity of his deity to the location of his humanity. He was fully God, but he was also fully man. And as fully man, he had limitations. If Jesus Christ was here, WE WOULD ALL BE CLAMORING for his attention. Cuz the superstar, the king of kings, has entered the building. BUT THE PROBLEM IS THE PROBLEM IS BECAUSE OF THE limitations of humanity, he could not go to everybody's house at the same time. It would be impossible, not because he's not divine, but because he limited his eternal spiritual activities to the limitations of his humanity. So, he did he he Jesus never went more than 300 miles from the place of his birth. Okay? He was localized in his humanity. So, he says, "I'm going to send you another of the SAME KIND. I GOT TO LEAVE BECAUSE WHEN Y'ALL DISPERSE, I WANT TO GO HOME WITH EVERYBODY." And because I want to go home with everybody, I'm going to send AN INVISIBLE POWER SOURCE TO BE AVAILABLE TO YOU AS THOUGH it were me. The Holy Spirit is the continuation of the work of Jesus on Earth on his behalf. So, that he could be everywhere at one time, and his purpose is to empower the kingdom's work in the life of his people. That's his purpose. You shall receive power.

All of us have electricity, which means you have power. Your appliances only work because of the power of electricity. Your lights come on because of the power of electricity. Your heat, your cooling works because of the power of electricity. You are attached to POWER IF YOU HAVE electricity in your home as we all do. You are connected to power. In other words, there is power access. Assuming your refrigerator's plugged in. Assuming your toaster's plugged in. Assuming your lamp is PLUGGED IN. THAT DOESN'T DETERMINE WHETHER YOU HAVE IT, that does determine whether you experience it. If you have come to Christ, you have the Holy Spirit. That doesn't mean you're experiencing it. You have been attached because the Bible says that you have been baptized by the spirit of God, 1 Corinthians chapter 12. You've been dumped. Just like the physical baptism, the spiritual baptism, you've been placed into the body of Christ through the work of the Holy Spirit that has entered the life of the believer. If you have a working refrigerator, it has been constructed to work by electrical power. If the refrigerator is not working because it has not been plugged in, you can't get mad at the electric company and say, "Y'all not doing YOUR JOB." YOU CAN'T GET MAD AT the manufacturer if the refrigerator has been constructed properly. You can only blame yourself from non-connection. OUR LACK OF POWER IS DUE TO OUR LACK OF CONNECTION. SO, if you got the power of the company, and if you're a Christian, you have the new nature, but there is no power, it's cuz there's a plug-in missing. BECAUSE YOU SHALL receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. When the Holy Spirit is doing his work in and through you.

I found out I have a problem I found out yesterday. Um I I don't like cold. I don't like cold. I I don't I don't even like cool. I like hot. Okay? I prefer hot. I will I will drive with a 100° heat with the windows down to get fresh air cuz I don't want air condition blowing on me a lot. I went to turn up the heat in my house yesterday on the on the one side of my house and it didn't come on. I put it up higher, it didn't come on. It didn't come on. So, I got to get that looked at. That happened a few years ago where I had a problem uh where the heat wouldn't come on. So, I called the air condition heating guy. He came over and I thought I needed a new unit. He said, "No, your unit's fine. It says your igniter is not lighting the pilot. So, that it's getting in through the unit creating the flame to produce the heat. It says, 'I know you think there's a unit problem, but this igniter is just a little piece of thing.' He says, 'But this little piece of thing gets everything moving. The parts are there, it's all working, but because your igniter is not connecting like it needs to connect, the unit is not doing what it was CREATED TO DO. GOD has given every believer an igniter to go into the new nature of the unit of your conversion to produce the KINGDOM OF GOD RESULTS.' BUT IF THE IGNITER IS NOT IGNITING, THEN THE RESULTS ARE NOT OCCURRING. SO, the power is not being realized. He says, he taught the kingdom of God, and with this information I'm going to give you, the spirit of God will produce power."

The John chapter 16:12, Jesus is talking about the Holy Spirit. He does that in John 14, 15, and 16. But in chapter 16:12, he says, "I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when he, the spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and disclose it to you. All things that my father has are mine. Therefore, I say that he takes of mine and discloses it to you."

Zoom has changed our communication systems. Most of us have become zoomologists. Because Zoom has created a way for us to communicate with another visually and verbally even though we're not in the same location. God has given every believer an access line of disclosure. That's what the verses say. So let's walk through this. Jesus says my father discloses to me. I download from Daddy. When I download from Daddy the Holy Spirit downloads from me. The Holy Spirit has a Google search engine. He downloads from the son. Follow this now. He says this. He says I take from my father, I download from him, the Holy Spirit downloads from me and reveals it to you. So the Holy Spirit's job is to be part of the download from the father through the son to the spirit to the saint. NOT ONLY IS IT A DOWNLOAD OF DATA BUT IT IS A DOWNLOAD OF DATA WITH A GPS system. CUZ HE SAYS I WILL GUIDE YOU INTO ALL TRUTH. SO THERE IS A GPS, there's a guidance positioning system at work in the life of the believer who is plugged into the spirit. So if you're plugged into the spirit, you now can get the download. You're now on cosmic zoom. Okay? You're now IN SYNC AND THAT SYNC WILL NOT ONLY GIVE YOU THE INFORMATION, it will give you the directions. He says AND IT WILL GUIDE YOU, steer you. Is there a qualification? Is there something that has to be operating? He says yeah, as long as you know the spirit is the spirit of truth. If you don't have kingdom truth, you don't get spirit power. A lot of people want spirit power who are not committed to kingdom truth. Once you abandon the truth which is God's perspective on any subject. I don't care what the subject is. WHEN YOU ABANDON THAT, you cannot then ask for the spirit's engagement, power, presence, enablement. He's not available because you're operating on false data.

But we live in a world today where Christians are being culturalized rather than kingdomized. AND YOU HEAR US BUYING INTO SECULAR THINKING, SECULAR THOUGHT BECAUSE WE LIKE IT. WE BUY INTO DISNEYLAND BECAUSE IT SEEMS SO RIGHT AND FUN EVEN THOUGH IT GOES AGAINST KINGDOM TRUTH. He says THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT IS TIED to the teaching of the kingdom. That's called becoming a kingdom disciple, becoming a person who has NOW ORCHESTRATED ALL OF LIFE under the rule of God and when the the spirit who is the spirit of truth knows that we're operating under divine jurisdiction based on divine truth, we now have access to spirit enablement or power. Many people want to hear from Jesus which happens through THE SPIRIT WHO DON'T WANT to be under the jurisdiction of the kingdom. They want to bring the kingdom of the culture into the kingdom of God and then they want the kingdom of God to adjust to the kingdom of the culture. And so you hear them compromising their views, compromising their perspectives because that's what they like, that's how they were raised, that's their viewpoint, that's what they taught them in school and all that. The moment it goes against the kingdom of God, it goes against the spirit of God. And once it goes against the spirit of God, there is no power cuz you're no longer plugged in even though you have the equipment. And when that happens, he says you shall be verse 8 my witnesses. When the truth of the kingdom, God's viewpoint we come underneath it. We operate by it even though we live in the culture. We operate by the principles of the kingdom. Now we have access. You know when when they uh when they want to teach the agents how to spot counterfeit money they don't teach them that by showing them counterfeit money. They teach them by showing them and making them indoctrinated on the authentic currency. They make them so acquainted with the authentic currency that now they can recognize any counterfeit cuz it's not consistent with the authentic currency. The culture is offering us counterfeit currency. It looks like the real deal. It looks like the authentic deal. IT LOOKS LIKE it's right, it's real, it's all that but it's fake money. GOD WANTS US SO acquainted with the truth that we can recognize the error, the lies, the deceptions not because we know all of them cuz they KEEP CHANGING EVERY MONTH BUT WE'RE SO ACQUAINTED WITH THE TRUTH THAT IT BECOMES obvious that's not part of it.

When that happens when you see the spirit of God manifesting itself, he says and you will be my witnesses. Now what does a witness do? They testify. When you're in court and you're a witness on the witness stand, you're giving testimony. You're declaring something. When the Holy Spirit is doing his work because you've come under the jurisdiction of the king and his kingdom, you're flying his flag over your life, home, family, church, your sphere of influence, when the Holy Spirit begins to do his work, you going to have a testimony. See, the one of the reasons we don't testify is cuz we don't have a testimony. And if you don't have a testimony, you don't have anything to talk about. YOU CAN'T TELL, YOU CAN'T SAY TO NOBODY THIS IS WHAT GOD DID FOR ME. THIS is how Jesus invaded my circumstance. This is how God turned SOMETHING AROUND. YOU GOT TO PIGGYBACK OFF OF THE TESTIMONY OF OTHER folk cuz you don't have a testimony yourself. But when the Holy Spirit begins DOING HIS WORK BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN TIED AND TETHERED to the truth of the kingdom, he says you're going to HAVE SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT AND YOU KNOW WHEN GOD REALLY DOES SOMETHING, YOU CAN'T KEEP IT TO YOURSELF. YOU'RE GOING TO TESTIFY OF WHO GOD IS AND WHAT God has done.

[music]
[music]
