The devil got a cold trick. Like if you
ain't talked to God in a while, he'll
make you think you shouldn't talk to him
cuz you ain't talked to him in a while.
That's a trick. God know what you're
going through. I try not to be jaded,
you know, cuz I'm blessed. You know, God
done bought me a long time. Well, wait.
But I remember when 20,000 would have it
would have been everything to me.
>> It would have changed my whole $1,000
would have moved the needle for me, man.
>> You understand? And I have to remember
that. It's been a long time, but you
know, you get blessed. God take you
someplace, but always try to remember,
man. People talk to me all the time. So,
man, I was looking on TV, you was crying
the other day. Yo, dog, see, you just
see this part. You ain't You ain't see
the trip I've been on. And a lot of
times when I'm telling people about the
trip, I'm remembering the journey. You
don't know. You don't know the days,
man. I was getting ran off people's
property for fishing, trying to eat cuz
I was home. You don't you ain't see none
of that. You ain't see times I got
arrested.
>> So when I got here and I be telling
people the story, I be playing back that
in my mind while I'm talking make me cry
sometime cuz I can't believe what God
done for me, man. I just flat out can't
believe it. And that's why I tell people
about God cuz if God can save me,
>> me
>> me,
>> I bet he can save you. Yeah,
>> cuz you have no idea what I used to have
to do just to survive.
>> That's why I don't get mad at people,
man, when I see people out here doing
stuff that's kind of off center cuz you
don't know a person going through.
>> That's right.
>> You know, you don't know.
>> But if you're going through something,
man, you got to keep the faith. You
know, God is always right there. You
know, when you you ever get the feeling
God ain't with you, you know why that
is? Cuz you ain't with him.
>> He available all the time. Just got to
keep that relationship. Even if you slip
away, the devil got a cold trick. Like
if you ain't talked to God in a while,
he'll make you think you shouldn't talk
to him cuz you ain't talked to him in a
while. That's a trick. God know what
you're going through. You don't been
away for a while. Just turn around and
start talking.
>> You ain't got to know how to pray. Just
talk to him.
>> But you got to get some type of system
going with him. That's all.
>> You know, like I like I say, I ain't
that good a Christian. You know, like
I'm not trying to convert you. But I am
trying to hip you to it.
>> If you don't have the answers, he do.
>> I bet you he do.
>> You're sitting up in here looking at me.
But y'all think about this for a minute.
Why am I saying this at this particular
time? And why are you sitting here
hearing it?
>> Could it be? Could it be that he put you
in the right place at a particular time
to hear just something?
>> [applause]
>> You done probably heard it before, but
sometimes you it's got to click at the
right moment.
>> Somebody need this to just click for
you.
>> You just you just one prayer away. Just
couple of steps.
>> I want I get my phone out here. I'mma
show you something.
>> So I ain't You think I'm talking?
>> I live this here.
>> I ain't got nothing else. And watch
where I'm going to show you what's on my
phone. and I'mma watch watch what
happen.
>> Gratitude is one of the most overlooked
and key principles to your success.
If your goal is to be a millionaire and
you start out making 20,000 a year and
then God gets you to 50,
but you mad cuz you ain't a millionaire.
But hold up, man. Do you not remember
that just a minute ago you wasn't didn't
have a 20? So you got to show gratitude
for the 50. Then somehow by the grace of
God, you get to 150.
It's people making 150 who used to be
dead broke mad cuz they not a
millionaire. Hold up partner. Do you
remember when you was just making the
50?
>> Now you done tripled that. And you got
to understand that there's joy in the
journey. So if you don't show the proper
amount of gratitude, you're never going
to be happy. You're never going to be
content. And after a while, man, God
going to get tired of you. It's like if
you somebody come over your house and
borrow a cup of sugar every day. Every
day, somebody come to your house, ask
you for a cup of sugar, and you give it
to him and they walk away and don't ever
say thank you. How [clears throat] many
times [laughter] can this cat come to
your house and get this sugar without
saying thank you to you before you as a
human being go, "Yo, yo, yo, my man, you
come here every day and I give you this
cup of sugar. You ain't said thank you
one time. Don't come by here no more."
But through God's grace and mercy, he
allow us to keep coming back. But
suppose you were grateful though. Maybe
one time you go to God and ask for
another 150 and he give you 500 cuz you
didn't show gratitude. Maybe sometimes
when the guy that kept coming by your
house asking for the cup of sugar, if he
would show gratitude, maybe you go, "Hey
man, here go a five pound sack of sugar.
That way you ain't got to come back
tomorrow." But if you never show the
gratitude, you never become the
recipient of the grace. And the grace is
the what you need on top of that that
helps you get to the next level and take
your place. My wife asked me the other
day cuz I just turned 65, right? I was
talking to my wife and I said, "Baby, I
was just kind of kind of got a little
throwed off a little bit cuz even I'm
human, you know, I got a little throwed
off." Said, "Baby, I just turned 65 and
I really was wanting a little bit more
to be popped off by now." She said,
"Wait a minute. Hold up, Steve. Wait a
minute. Hold up." [laughter] She said,
"Wait a minute. Let me ask you
something. When you was 30,
where did you see yourself at 65?" I
said, "Well, I ain't see this." She
said, "Exactly." She said, "So, you can
want all you want, but you need to go
outside and just drive around and go get
in some of your cars and and see how you
fly and just take a look around." And
now, I think you'll be all right. And I
went on and sat down. [laughter]
and go sit down.
>> If you just understood the principles of
success, you could be successful. It
don't matter what. Anybody can be
successful. You just got to adhere to a
few things. It's and what you got to
adhere to is not hard. The hard part is
believing that it's applicable to you.
But everybody is designed to be
successful.
You just got to get out your way
sometime. The difference between
successful people and nonsuccessful
people is just what goes on in here.
That's the difference. It's not that
successful people are smarter than you
or anything. And I'm not saying none of
you aren't successful. I'm just using as
example. I'm just talking in
generalities. Look, just have to change
the way you think. The Bible says a man
is as he think. So if you think poor, I
have news for you. You can be nothing
but poor. If you think negative
thoughts, you'll be nothing but
negative. But whatever comes out of
here, whatever you project out of here
comes back. That's how it works. Don't
you think for one moment that it works
any other way. Give you an example. You
go home and you got a remote control.
You pick up your remote control when you
go home and you press the on button and
you point it at your TV. What do you
expect to happen? You expect TV to come
on. That TV come on all the time, don't
it? If HBO is channel 420 and you press
420 and you hit select, what do you
expect your TV to do? You expect HBO to
come on. And guess what? Without really
thinking about it, you know that's the
channel. You press select, HBO comes on
your TV.
Your remote control was designed the way
your mind works. Your mind was designed
in the image of God.
God said, "Let there be light.
He didn't just light it up. He He pretty
powerful dude. He could have just lit it
up, but he was teaching us a lesson. He
said, "Let there be light." Then it was
light. He was teaching us in the very
beginning that what you say is what is.
>> So now, if they created this remote off
your mind, everything you project from
here is what you're going to get back.
It's the law of attraction. It don't
matter if you believe it or not. It's
just the way it is. I'm sorry. It don't
hear. It don't matter if you adhere to
it. I don't believe in that. It don't
matter. It's just the way it is. You
have people all the time, ain't no God.
You because you say that, you think I'm
f to go with that ignorant mess you just
said. It ain't no God. No, no, no, dog.
Just cuz you said it was no God. Don't
make that true. You got a bunch of
people and got together talking about it
ain't no God. Quit listening to him. It
is a God. It really does work. If you're
a woman and you say all men are dogs,
guess what? You f to meet all of them.
>> You f to meet all of them. You going to
prove yourself to be right.
If you say, "Man, I [clears throat]
really feel great today." Guess what?
That's how you feel. You can wake up on
the wrong side of the bed and change it
by just changing what you say.
I hate when I hear people say, "I'm not
a morning person." I hate that, man. I'm
not a morning person. Wait a minute. The
goal is to wake up.
What are you talking about? It's going
to be morning tomorrow. Don't be
Why would you shoot down the blessing?
The blessing is to wake up. Now you wake
up and say, "I'm not a morning person.
How stupid is this? You got to change
your you change your attitude. You
change your altitude. It it's it's your
mental capacity that gets We are all
where we thought oursel to be. I just
been talking to God for a long time
about this, but let me tell you
something. And I know for sure if you
want to be successful or happy in this
life, you got to have God in your life.
You have to include God in your life.
[applause]
Now listen to this. I'm a perfect
example of this fact. You ain't got to
be perfect to have God in your life cuz
you're not perfect. No way.
>> You quit going down to these churches
preaching perfection cuz there ain't
none. I get so amazed at people who come
see me and then I had this one lady
sitting up in the audience just with her
arms full. I said, "Ma'am, you're not
having a good time." She said, "As a
matter of fact, I'm not." I said,
"What's wrong?" She said, "I'm really
disappointed in you." I said, "You
really?" She I said, "How so?" She said,
"I thought you were a Christian." I
said, "I am a Christian." She said, "But
I've heard you use profanity several
times."
Okay. I
I'm a cussing Christian. I I I don't
understand what what how that stops me
from being a Christian. I have flaws
because I'm a human
because you you might not cuss, but you
do something. So, okay. So, what? You
don't cuss. You do something. Cuz
there's none perfect. No, not one. So,
why I'm sitting up here fronting and
faking like I'm this perfect dude so I
can say I'm a Christian when all them
Christians ain't nobody perfect. You You
can't be perfect, man. But you can have
a relationship with God. You can sit up
and fake the funk if you want to and say
you perfect, but you're not. You're not.
Everybody in this room is broken. All us
is broken. That's what you need God for.
Cuz we all broken. Everybody. I don't
care who you are.
And it ain't no a ain't no you more
broken than somebody else. You broken.
What difference do it make? Somebody
told me one time if it's three people on
a boat and a person dive off the boat to
swim to shore and he get 100 yards away
from the boat and he drowned and sink.
Then the next person dive in the water
and he get 500 yards off the boat but he
drowned and sink and the last man get
off the boat and he dive in the water
and he get six feet away from shore and
he drown and he die. Who the better
swimmer?
Who the better swimmer? Are y'all drown?
I don't care how far you go. You can sit
up here, man. You can keep talking this
perfection thing as you want. You get
close as you want. We all going to come
short
>> when it come to perfection. Look, form a
relationship with God just the way you
are. God take you just the way you are.
Matter of fact, God shape you up just
like he need. See, he take dudes like
me. He take old hoodlm dudes and he like
you hear people they say they got saved
they got saved and they got washed white
as snow. You hear people say that. I
ain't get that version. I just got
rinsed off
when I looked up and got saved. I still
had dirt on me. Now if you got the
whitest snow version, congratulations.
But that ain't really how it go. God
take people like me. I'm an imperfect
soldier for Christ and he allows me to
say some things on his behalf. And you
may not like the way I say it. You might
like you might not like my method, but
I'm just telling you the truth that you
can be an imperfect person and have
relationship with God. That's all I'm
trying to tell you. You ain't got to
believe that cuz once again, I'm not in
the soul conversion business. If you
want to go to hell, bye.
This is none of my business.
But if you struggling and you're looking
for a way out and you lost a little bit,
I'm telling you that God is in the
forgiving business. That God is in the
get your life together business. That
God is in the make your dream come true
business. That God is in the accept you
as you are business. You can't fix
yourself. If you could fix yourself,
wouldn't you have done it by now?
>> You can't fix yourself. But he can. God
took somebody like me and turned me into
something. And I'm telling you right
now, I have no business even being here.
If it wasn't for God's grace, I can't
even explain my career to nobody. I
can't even, somebody asked me, they ask
me all the time, "How you get all these
TV shows?" I can tell you flat out, I
have no idea cuz all I asked for was
one. [laughter]
I'll tell you the truth, I just wanted
one. You know how hard it is to get one
show on in Hollywood? Come out here and
try to get TV show. You know how hard
that is? I got eight.
>> You know what that is? That's called
grace. That's God's unmmerited favor.
[applause]
That's because, man, if you ask God for
something, he'll do exceedingly
abundantly over all you think or ask.
And all you got to do is honor him. So,
I'm standing here honoring him. And the
reason I'm standing here cuz when I was
homeless and I had nothing, I told God,
"If you let me make it, when I get
there, I'm g tell everybody about you."
So, I'm telling you about him. You ain't
got to believe me, but I'm holding up my
end of the deal. I appreciate y'all
coming. I don't try to knock people
down, but I try to get people to think
about the reality of it. It's the
difference between your gift and your
passion.
Talent is one thing. Gifted is another
thing. Anything is possible.
Anything is possible.
>> Yes, you can.
>> But make sure that whatever you're
pursuing is what you're gifted at. Don't
worry about what you're passionate at.
It's it's if you're gifted. A lot of
people pursue passions and ignore their
God-given gift.
That's a mistake. The Bible says your
gift will make room for you.
>> Doesn't say nothing about your passion.
The Bible never mentions education.
>> It mentions your faith, your gift, and
your work ethic. That's how you get over
in life. You know how many people got
degrees ain't working?
>> That's right.
>> That's it. That ain't the key. So, if
you're going to pursue it, you have to
make sure that you're gifted at it.
and that this just not you're well I'm
gonna go do this like I people kill me
I'm Steve I'm gonna be what you are
I'mma be a comedian. No you're not. No
you're not. I just stop people right
away because if you were you would be
because this is not something you can go
to school for. You can take acting
lessons, piano lessons, dancing lesson,
bungee jumping lesson. You can learn how
to fly a plane. You can learn how to fix
teeth. You can fix learn how to paint.
You can take drumming lessons. You can
take piano. You can learn how to work
one of these cameras. Your ass can't go
to school and take class and when you
get finished you funny. You born this
way. So when people come to me and
talking I'm gonna be what you are. No.
No. Sorry. And you can't take no class
for this either. At nothing I can tell
you when you turn that corner you can
come out here and make this work.
>> All the writing all these jokes. Ain't
no school for that. You got that. You
have to be born that way. So I'm
referring to a gift. You can you can
become an actress at 60. But who though?
You can get you can get in church play.
You can be married.
But even Mary had to be a little bit
younger though. You might have to be uh
one of the wise women or something.
>> [clears throat]
>> I'm just saying just just pursue your
gift. Make sure you're not pursuing your
pass. I don't try to knock people down,
but I try to get people to think about
the reality of it. It's the difference
between your gift and your passion.
Talent is one thing. Gifted is another
thing. I'm a I'm a I'm a talented
athlete. I ain't gifted as
you You know, I can play basketball,
play football. I know how to swing golf
club. I can, you know, I play a little
bit of tenn I can play. You know, I can
do a flip.
I ain't no gymnastics.
But I can do a flip though. I can flip.
Ain't going to kid no points.
And if I flip now, we'll have to cancel
the rest of this season. [applause]
I mean, you know, look, man,
>> God
gave me a life I never even really
dreamed of.
>> He gave me even beyond what I dreamed
of. I mean, you think about it. The
money they pay me is to wake up. I
either play music
>> or I tell jokes.
>> I either play music or I tell jokes. I
entertain people for a living. They give
me money.
That's a blessing, man. See, see, when I
wake up,
>> I don't have to go to work. I get to go
to work.
>> See, that's the difference, man. Some
people have to go to work. I get to go
to work. I get to. I don't have to.
>> You know, I mean, I was doing this for
years for no money, but through grace
and mercy, you know, he just kept
blessing me. And then, you know, I got
other things I want to accomplish. You
know, I'm not through. You know, I've
been at this a long time, man. Like, I'm
I'm thinking about the end, you know,
but
all I want to do now is make enough
money to change uh kids' lives. You
know, my foundation is the most
important thing. I'm going to do some
stuff over here in uh Ghana, Batswana,
and Joberg. Those are three cities I'm
targeting for my foundation to come and
change, you know. So that's what it is
now. That's motivation. And then, you
know, I'm a trailblazer, man. I got to
show other people how to do it. You
know, my job now is to show y'all how I
did it. That's why I talk all the time
about motivation. I talk more about
motivation now than I do comedy.
>> Cuz you know, your career is what you
paid for. Your calling is what you made
for. So I'm in the calling part of my
life now. You know, I have to like when
you ask me a question, see, I can't just
like if I tell you you got to write it
down, I'm telling you how to make it.
I'm just You have to do this. Now, you
can try to do it. If you you could try
to not do it.
It's going to be hard though. But so, I
always try to give people little pieces
of wisdom cuz you're young. You know,
everybody in this room, you want to be
happy and you want to be successful.
Everybody in here wants to be happy and
successful. If you don't want to be
happy and successful, there's something
wrong with you. Most people want to be
happy and successful. You just need the
key,
the how to. That's my job is to show you
how to. Like if I give you one scripture
that can change your life and I tell you
HCA 2 and two and then
you don't follow that, that's not my
fault.
>> So now you know that you have to write
it down. Like if you look at my iPhone,
my iPhone has my vision board on I ain't
got no picture, no dog or my wife on my
phone. My wife is at my house.
My wife is she's somewhere. She's in
Rwanda right now
cuz I put stuff that I dream about on my
iPhone. My vision is on. So every time
my phone ring, I look at it. I think of
my visions and dreams. Every time I pick
up that phone, I should pick up that
phone to make one of them dreams come
true. When I open up my laptop, the same
thing on the laptop. So, every time I'm
texting or email, I'm trying to make a
dream come true. I don't have time for
nonsense,
>> you know, like you, you know, like what
they say about me in the blogs, I don't
it don't matter what they say. They
don't know me. They don't even know me.
They never met me. They say negative
stuff about me, it don't mean nothing.
Look at me. What do I care what they
say? God keeps blessing me. It don't
matter what you say. You got to know who
you are and who's you are.
>> That's all you need to know. I know who
I am and I know who I belong to. And
that God of mine ain't going to let
nothing happen to me
>> that I can't handle.
[music]
>> [music]