Introduction
ello.	I’m	glad	you’re	here.	Something	motivated	you	to	pick	up	and	open	a
book	called	
You	Need	More	Money.
	Maybe	the	title	connected	with	you
instantly,	and	you	thought,	
I	do
	
need	more	money.	It’s	been	on	my	mind	for	a
long	time.	Enough	messing	around.	Maybe	this	book	will	finally	show	me	what
to	do	about	it.
Or	maybe	it’s	a	thought	you	never	had	before,	and	some	mixture	of	curiosity
and	fear	made	you	look.	
Do	I	really	need	more	money?	Sure,	I’d	like	to	have
more	money,	but	do	I	really	need	it?	Could	this	book	tell	me	something	I	don’t
know	about	my	finances?
Or—and	let’s	be	real—maybe	you	picked	up	this	book	just	to	scoff	at	the
title.	
You	Need	More	Money?	Who	is	this	Matt	Manero	guy	and	why	does	he
think	he	can	tell	me	how	much	money	I	need?
If	you’re	the	first	kind	of	reader,	congratulations—you’ve	
taken	the	first	step
toward	drastically	improving	your	financial	situation:	acknowledging	that	you
need	more	money.	And	you’ve	taken	the	second	step,	too:	finding	the	book	that
will	give	you	a	clear	road	map	to	getting	there.	If	you’re	the	second	kind	of
reader,	let	me	end	your	curiosity	and	fear	right	now:	You	do	need	more	money
—a	lot	more	than	you	think—and	this	book	is	going	to	show	you	exactly	how	to
get	it.	If	you	follow	the	steps	here,	it’s	going	to	be	a	lot	easier	than	you	think.	To
the	third	kind	of	reader,	I	have	to	say:	Sorry	for	the	rude	wake-up	call,	buddy,
but	no	matter	how	much	you	think	you’ve	got,	it’s	nowhere	near	enough,	and
however	comfortable	you	think	you	are,	I’ll	bet	you	aren’t	living	the	life	you
always	dreamed	of.	I’m	going	to	show	you	just	how	far	short	you	are	and	what
you’re	going	to	have	to	do	to	cover	the	gap.
No	matter	who	you	are,	when	it	comes	to	your	finances,	chances	are	you
thought	you’d	be	further	along	by	now.	You’d	be	able	to	kick	back	more	and
worry	about	the	future	less.	Well,	it	didn’t	happen.	You’re	way	behind,	even
more	than	you	know,	and	you’re	too	scared	to	face	the	truth.	I’m	betting	you
haven’t	discussed	the	state	of	your	finances	with	your	spouse,	your	children,
your	parents,	or	your	brothers	and	sisters.	Even	the	thought	of	that	discussion
gives	you	too	much	anxiety.	And	if	you’ve	said	anything	to	your	friends	and
neighbors,	you	sure	as	hell	haven’t	told	them	the	truth.	Maybe	they	think	you	are
doing	great,	killin’	it	even,	and	you	take	false	comfort	in	maintaining	their
illusion.	But	you	know	that	in	reality	you	haven’t	put	away	enough	for	much	of
anything	other	than	keeping	up	with	the	Joneses	and	
perpetuating	the	lie:	the	lie
that	you	are	financially	secure.	But	whether	you’re	aware	of	it	or	choosing	to
ignore	the	reality,	the	truth	is	that	everywhere	you	turn,	your	life	is	calling	for
more	money.	Money	for	bills,	cars,	lessons,	tutors,	the	mortgage,	eating	out,
vacations,	college,	retirement	.	.	.	the	list	goes	on.	It	doesn’t	matter	where	the
money	comes	from,	you	just	need	more	of	it.	If	that	doesn’t	scare	the	hell	out	of
you,	it	should.	How,	where,	when	are	you	going	to	catch	up?	Once	you	realize
that	
you	need	more	money,
	this	is	the	question	that	keeps	you	up	at	night.
I	know	because	it	used	to	keep	me	up	at	night,	too.
But	I	dug	myself	out.	Not	only	did	I	climb	out	of	the	hopelessness,	but	I’m
on	top	now.	I’m	forty-eight	years	old	and	I’ve	been	in	business	for	myself	since	I
was	twenty-five.	I	started	at	the	bottom	of	the	barrel	in	business:	no	money,	no
contacts,	no	plan.	I	fought	and	clawed	my	way	to	eventually	build	a	successful
company	from	the	ground	up.	Now	I	operate	as	president	and	CEO	of	three
companies	that	produce	annual	business	of	over	$100	million;	but	you	won’t	see
me	slowing	down,	I	still	need	MORE	MONEY.	Not	to	pay	the	bills	anymore,
but	to	fulfill	my	potential.	To	live	my	life	to	the	fullest.	To	provide	long-lasting
security	for	my	wife	and	our	three	boys.	And	to	help	more	people.
The	truth	is,	your	picture	of	success	probably	isn’t	adequate.	Whether	you
like	it	or	not,	we	now	live	in	a	winner-take-all	world.	Working	people	haven’t
gotten	a	decent	raise	in	decades,	and	the	middle	class	is	dying	off.	You	need	to
climb	into	the	ranks	of	the	rich	quickly,	or	risk	being	left	behind.	It’s	not	enough
to	just	stay	on	top	of	paying	your	bills;	you	also	need	to	move	the	
needle	of	your
finances	enough	to	create	
real
	wealth	that	can	provide	for	you	and	your	family
into	retirement	and	beyond.	That’s	right.	I	want	you	to	leave	a	ton	of	money	for
your	heirs.	Why	would	you	want	to	leave	them	with	nothing	when	you	die?	And
even	if	you	don’t	have	heirs,	you	can	leave	behind	a	legacy	and	change	the
world	by	giving	your	fortune	to	a	cause	that	matters	to	you.	I	want	to	generate	so
much	money	that	it	can	last	for	generations.	And	I	want	the	same	for	you	and
your	family.
You	better	believe	you	can	do	it,	too.	I	know	you	can,	because	I’m	going	to
show	you	exactly	how.
Maybe	you	think	you	messed	up	somewhere	along	the	way,	so	you	just	gave
up	on	the	dreams	you	had	earlier	in	your	life.	When	you	graduated,	you	said	you
would	be	a	millionaire	by	the	time	you	were	thirty.	Well,	thirty	came	and	went
and	instead	of	becoming	a	millionaire,	you	actually	fell	financially	behind—way
behind.	You	might	actually	be	falling	into	the	trap	that	millions	of	Americans
fall	into	when	they	start	to	think	that	financial	freedom	is	no	longer
attainable	.	.	.	they	simply	give	up.	They	toss	in	the	towel	and	say,	
Not	in	my
lifetime.
This	book	will	convince	you	that	you	have	the	potential—you	just	haven’t
tapped	into	it.	You’ve	tended	to	play	it	safe	and	you’ve	lowered	your	goals
because	part	of	you	is	scared	of	shooting	for	something	big.	Perhaps	you	limped
into	your	career	or	business,	stayed	small,	played	it	safe,	and	made	a	decent
living	for	yourself	and	your	family.	But	you	know	you	can	do	so	much	more.	I
know	you	can	make	
more
	money.	Maybe	you	just	didn’t	know	how	.	.	.	until
now.
Let	me	make	one	thing	clear—this	is	not	a	book	that’s	going	to	show	you
how	to	make	a	little	extra	money	on	the	side,	how	to	get	slightly	better	returns
on	your	investments,	or	how	to	make	incremental	upgrades	to	your	lifestyle.	The
methods	I	outline	here	are	going	to	unleash	your	potential	to	earn	and
dramatically	change	your	life.	You’re	no	longer	going	to	plan	your	life	around
the	money	you	have	coming	in.	Instead,	you’re	going	to	dream	big,	picture	a
lifestyle	of	your	design,	and	take	a	giant	leap	into	the	kind	of	wealth	you’ve	only
ever	dreamed	about.
Something	is	missing	in	most	of	us	these	days:	
unbridled	ambition.
	A
burning,	unyielding	desire	to	cross	whatever	finish	line	you	desire.	To	stop
playing	it	safe.	You	need	to	have	so	much	ambition	that	the	obstacles	you	face
shrink	in	front	of	you.	The	utter	
lack
	of	ambition	is	creating	generations	of
people	who	settle	for	less.	The	odds	are	this	is	now	you.	You	just	don’t	want
success	badly	enough.	I’m	talking	about	all	areas	of	your	life:	success	in
relationships,	success	in	careers,	success	in	health,	and,	you	better	believe	it,
success	in	your	bank	account.	What	you	really	want	is	comfort,	and	comfort
isn’t	going	to	get	you	where	you	want	to	go.
Together,	we	are	going	to	build	a	“Lifestyle	by	Design.”	A	life	that	you
were	meant	for.	For	me,	when	it	comes	to	success,	I	know	that	money	is	part	of
the	equation,	and	I’m	going	to	show	you	why	it	needs	to	be	for	you,	too.	I	need
you	to	understand	that	money	plays	a	big	role	in	happiness.	Stop	believing	that
crap	that	“money	won’t	make	you	happy.”	It	is	simply	not	true.
Money	matters,	and	it	matters	more	than	you	have	given	it	
credit	for.	You
need	more	money	to	help	you	achieve	your	dreams	and	to	give	you	peace	of
mind.	To	give	you	freedom.	Whether	you	want	to	make	a	change	to	your	own
life	or	to	the	world	around	you,	money	gives	you	the	power	and	courage	to	put
your	vision	into	action.
Money	is	not	the	pursuit	of	greed.	It	is	not	something	to	be	ashamed	of	or
boastful	about.	Rather,	money	is	like	oxygen.	In	my	mind,	it	is	a	requirement	of
happiness—because	money	helps	you	live	a	Lifestyle	by	Design	.	.	.	
your
	design.
Regardless	of	whether	you	want	to	have	the	private	jet,	the	mansions,	the	trips	to
exotic	locations,	or	maybe	just	an	early	retirement	so	you	can	spend	your	life
golfing	all	day,	you	can’t	do	any	of	it	to	the	fullest	without	a	constant	stream	of
income.	
You	Need	More	Money
	provides	you	the	
freedom	
and	security	so	that
when	you	are	doing	what	you	were	meant	to	do,	you	can	do	it	to	the	fullest.
Lastly,	you	will	need	a	guide	to	take	you	through	it	all.	While	you	need
more	money	than	you	think,	and	though	you	have	further	to	go	than	you	think,
getting	there	is	not	as	complicated	as	you	might	imagine.	The	journey	from
where	you	are	(even	if	you’re	broke)	to	getting	rich	enough	to	live	the	life
you’ve	always	wanted	can	be	broken	down	into	six	simple	steps.	And	I’m	going
to	break	down	each	one	of	those	steps	for	you	in	ways	that	apply	to	you	and	your
situation.
But	first,	you’re	going	to	need	a	wake-up	call.
This	book	is	divided	into	two	parts.	In	