CHAPTER	1
Your	Money	Mind-set	Is	Broken
IT	CAN	ALL	CHANGE	IN	AN	INSTANT
When	my	brother-in-law,	John,	moved	from	Little	Rock,	Arkansas,	to	Dallas,
Texas,	with	his	wife	and	four	children	a	few	years	ago,	my	family	was	thrilled.	It
allowed	us	all,	my	family	of	five,	his	family	of	six,	and	my	mother-in-law—Gigi
—to	see	each	other	a	lot.	Our	favorite	tradition	was	Easter	Sunday	at	Gigi’s
house.	She	cooked,	the	children	played	football	outside	together,	and	Gigi	and
my	beloved	wife,	Rokki,	were	able	to	dote	on	John.	John	and	Rokki	are
technically	half	brother	and	sister,	but	if	you	ever	mentioned	that,	they	would
both	kick	your	ass.	To	say	that	Rokki,	her	sister,	Jennell,	and	Gigi	were	crazy	in
love	with	John	would	be	an	understatement.	They	were	fiercely	protective	of
him	and	worshipped	the	ground	he	walked	on.
You	see,	life	was	always	a	little	difficult	for	John.	His	birth	
father	never
made	an	impact	in	his	life	and	his	adoptive	father	was	worthless.	Gigi’s	first
husband,	the	father	of	John	and	his	sister,	Jennell,	was	nonexistent.	After	John
was	born,	he	was	gone.	When	Gigi	remarried,	she	and	her	new	husband	had
Rokki.	Rokki’s	dad	left	the	family	when	she	was	eleven	and	no	one	heard	from
him	for	three	full	years.	After	that	divorce,	Gigi	remarried	again	to	a	“real
winner,”	who	basically	showed	them	the	world	of	drinking,	laziness,	and
negativity.	My	wife	got	away	from	it	all	at	sixteen,	when	she	moved	in	with	her
best	friend	to	finish	high	school	with	some	structure,	but	the	impact	of	an	absent
father	left	John	without	a	road	map.
John	did	the	best	he	could	without	any	guidance.	High	school	was	a
challenge,	he	never	considered	college,	and	he	went	into	the	workforce
underskilled.	But	through	it	all—his	mother’s	husbands,	the	lack	of	father
figures,	and	any	authority	figures	leaving	their	family—John	was	always	there
for	the	women	in	his	life.	Rokki,	Jennell,	and	Gigi	considered	that	enough	to
earn	110	percent	of	their	love,	and	they	made	sure	John	knew	it	every	chance
earn	110	percent	of	their	love,	and	they	made	sure	John	knew	it	every	chance
they	could.	In	their	eyes,	he	could	do	no	wrong.	And	once	again,	if	my	wife,	her
sister,	or	her	mom	heard	you	criticize	John,	they	would	drop	gloves	and	fight
you	on	the	spot.	See,	John’s	financial	situation	was	like	chicken	and	feathers:	At
times	he	was	eating	chicken,	and	at	other	times	he	was	eating	feathers.	It	was
always	an	up-and-down	situation,	fueled	by	household	moves,	job	changes,	and
the	idea	that	the	“next”	job	would	be	the	home	run.
On	Easter	Sunday	in	2014,	when	John	and	his	family	came	
to	the	door	at
Gigi’s,	we	all	jumped	up	and	shared	hugs.	The	kids	ran	outside	and	it	had	all	the
makings	of	another	great	Easter	at	Gigi’s	house.	But	when	I	got	to	John,	he
looked	exhausted.	His	skin	was	pale	and,	without	question,	he	had	dropped
weight.
I	hugged	him	and	said,	“Wow,	John,	you	have	lost	some	weight!”
“Maybe	five	pounds,”	said	John.
More	like	twenty	to	twenty-five	pounds,
	I	thought.
When	dinner	was	served,	I	noticed	that	John	hardly	touched	his	plate.	Gigi
always	made	a	ton	of	food	because	of	how	much	John	and	I	would	gulp	down,
but	today	he	hardly	ate	a	bite.	It	was	odd,	but	we	didn’t	comment	much	on	it.
After	dinner,	John	and	I	hit	the	couch	to	watch	the	game.	Within	minutes	John
was	asleep.	I	sat	by	his	side,	watching	the	game	quietly.	Around	fifteen	minutes
later,	John	awoke	suddenly,	almost	in	a	panic.	His	eyes	shot	wide	open	as	he
grabbed	my	arm	and	leaned	over	to	me.	He	said	in	a	whisper,	“I	haven’t	felt
worth	a	shit	in	months,	but	I’m	going	to	the	doctor	in	the	morning	to	get	it
checked	out.”
That	should	have	been	that.	My	brother-in-law,	loved	by	so	many,	especially
his	wife	and	four	children,	and	considered	superhuman	by	my	wife,	his	sister,
and	his	mother,	should	have	simply	gone	to	the	doctor	on	Monday,	gotten	a	shot,
and	gone	back	to	work	on	Tuesday.	But	John	wasn’t	okay.	The	doctor	he	saw	on
Monday	sent	him	straight	to	the	emergency	room.	At	age	forty-six,	and—as	we
were	soon	to	find	out—with	no	health	insurance,	no	life	insurance,	and	less	than
$100	in	the	bank,	our	
beloved	John	was	diagnosed	with	stage	4	cancer.	Our
lives,	none	of	them,	would	ever	be	the	same	again.
THE	DIFFERENCE	MONEY	CAN	MAKE
Normal	can	change	in	an	instant.	Firings,	regulations,	buyouts,	mergers,	or	even
a	cancer	diagnosis	can	occur	without	any	of	it	being	your	fault.	My	brother-in-
a	cancer	diagnosis	can	occur	without	any	of	it	being	your	fault.	My	brother-in-
law	had	busted	his	butt	for	twenty	years,	had	nothing	to	show	for	it,	and	was
filled	with	guilt	when	he	discovered	he	was	dying.	For	years,	he’d	known	that	he
needed	more	money	to	keep	his	family	secure,	but	now	it	was	too	late.
At	this	point	in	my	life,	I	already	had	the	wake-up	call	that	made	me	realize
I	needed	more	money.	My	brother-in-law’s	stage	4	cancer	only	convinced	me
that	I	could	never	rest.	I	didn’t	stop	when	I	was	doing	okay	because	I	knew	it	all
could	change	in	a	minute—and	it	did.	While	this	kind	of	tragedy	showed	me
how	a	lack	of	money	and	preparation	can	cause	havoc,	on	the	other	side,	I	saw
the	power	that	having	money	can	make	on	a	difficult	situation.	The	outpouring
of	emotional	support	from	the	community	of	Coppell,	Texas,	was	incredible:
people	provided	food,	gifts,	clothes,	and	even	some	cash.	But	when	it	came	to
ultimately	helping	with	the	money	situation,	whether	it	was	John’s	past-due	bills
or	the	rent,	Rokki	and	I	were	able	to	step	in	and	take	care	of	it	so	John’s	family
could	hold	things	together	during	his	sickness.	Being	able	to	write	checks
without	worrying	about	how	it	would	affect	my	family’s	future	is	the	greatest
gift	I	have	ever	been	fortunate	enough	to	give.
Finding	yourself	in	a	situation	like	John’s	would	be	devastating,	but	even
less	extreme	circumstances	can	cause	a	major	crisis.	You	want	to	be	in	the	spot
where	you	don’t	have	to	worry	about	what	would	happen	if	everything	in	your
life	changed.	Right	now,	you	don’t	have	enough	savings,	enough	wealth,	and
enough	of	a	plan,	and	it’s	finally	time	to	admit	it:	
you	need	more	money.
Acknowledging	that	is	the	first	step	to	changing	your	financial	situation,	and
your	life.	If	everything	goes	south	tomorrow,	you’re	screwed.	You	don’t	have
enough	money	saved,	the	college	account	for	your	children	is	underfunded,	as	is
your	retirement	account,	and	if	just	one	little	blip	hits	your	financial	situation,
it’s	all	going	to	come	tumbling	down.	Would	you	be	okay	if	everything
changed?	I	doubt	it.	And	it	should	keep	you	up	at	night,	just	like	it	did	for	me.
I	tell	you	this	to	make	you	understand	two	things.	First,	understand	how
quickly	your	financial	situation	can	change.	The	vast	majority	of	things	in	this
world	are	out	of	your	control.	You	can’t	control	how	new	regulations	will	affect
your	business,	the	strength	of	new	competitors,	how	returns	on	the	stock	market
will	pay	out,	or	even	what	health	issues	may	arise.	All	of	this	means	you	need	to
focus	harder	on	the	one	thing	you	can	control:	you	need	to	get	your	money	in
order.
Second,	you	need	to	understand	the	power	that	money	gives	you.	I’m	not
talking	about	power	for	the	sake	of	prestige	or	notoriety	or	fame.	I’m	talking
about	the	power	to	lift	the	guilt	from	a	dying	man’s	shoulders.	When	I	saw	that
my	brother-in-law	was	scared	of	dying	and	leaving	his	family	with	nothing
because	he	
hadn’t	gotten	his	finances	into	shape,	my	wife	and	I	were	able	to	step
in	because	of	our	financial	success	and	remove	the	burden	from	his	shoulders	so
he	could	focus	on	his	recovery.
Chances	are	you’ll	face	a	time	in	your	life	when	a	family	member	or	close
friend	faces	a	crisis	and	needs	all	the	help	they	can	get.	It	may	not	even	be	that
they	need	help	paying	the	bills—if	you	have	a	sick	friend,	they	may	just	want
you	to	be	by	their	side.	Can	you	afford	to	take	time	off	work	to	spend	time	with
them?	Can	you	afford	to	let	your	friend’s	wife	borrow	your	car	to	do	errands?
Can	you	pay	to	get	their	air	conditioner	or	heater	fixed?	Good	news	can	cause	a
crisis,	too.	Maybe	your	insanely	smart	niece	gets	into	an	Ivy	League	school,	but
your	sister	can’t	afford	the	tuition.	Aren’t	you	going	to	want	to	pitch	in?	In	these
kinds	of	situations,	too	many	people	find	themselves	unable	to	offer	much	of	a
helping	hand,	since	they	are	too	busy	struggling	with	their	own	financial	worries.
When	you’re	rich,	you’ll	find	that	you	have	a	lot	more	freedom	and	flexibility	to
drop	everything	in	a	crisis	so	you	can	focus	on	the	thing	that	really	matters,
without	having	to	worry	about	missing	a	paycheck.
FALSE	POSITIVE:	WHEN	YOU	THINK	YOU’RE	DOING
OKAY—BUT	REALLY,	YOU’RE	BROKE
Until	my	brother-in-law’s	diagnosis,	I	thought	he	had	been	doing	okay
financially.	You	probably	think	you’re	doing	okay,	too.	You	might	be	at	the
point	where	you	are	able	to	pay	the	bills	and	
take	your	significant	other	out	for	a
nice	steak	dinner.	Hell,	you	might	actually	be	able	to	go	on	nice	vacations	and
drive	nice	cars.	But	that	is	the	problem:	You	are	spending	your	future	income
today	at	an	alarming	rate.	You	are	living	in	what	I	call	False	Positive.
False	Positive	is	believing	that	you	are	doing	better	than	you	actually	are.
Just	because	you	can	purchase	something	without	overdrawing	your	bank
account	
doesn’t	mean	you	can	afford	it.
	The	biggest,	and	most	detrimental,	lie
you	can	tell	yourself	is	“I’m	okay	financially.”	Once	you	start	to	believe	that	you
are	okay	financially,	you’ll	start	to	get	irresponsible	with	your	money—and	that
doesn’t	just	mean	spending	more	than	you	should.	You’ll	also	take	your	hand	off
the	throttle	and	stop	pushing	yourself	to	increase	your	earnings.
I	see	it	all	the	time	in	my	business	of	equipment	financing.	My	company
finances	heavy	equipment	like	big	rigs	and	heavy-duty	tow	trucks.	I	hear
customers	tell	me	all	the	time,	“My	trucks	are	paid	for	.	.	.	I’m	in	good	shape.”
And	you	know	what	they	do?	They	don’t	charge	enough	for	their	services;
therefore,	they	don’t	have	enough	cash	left	over	for	long-term	repair	and
maintenance,	and	they	end	up	falling	behind	and	never	catch	up.	The	lack	of
pressure	because	of	no	payments	due	or	any	debt	service	allows	the	financial
grim	reaper—complacency—to	creep	in.	While	they	think	they	are	in	a	position
of	strength,	a	competitor	who	is	100	percent	on	his	game	suddenly	shows	up	on
their	territory	and	eats	their	lunch.	The	same	thing	can	happen	to	you	in	your
personal	financial	journey.	If	you	fall	into	False	Positive	and	
stop	pushing	for
more	income,	more	savings,	more	stacks	and	racks	of	cash,	you,	too,	can	get
complacent	and	eventually	be	caught	off	guard.
Today	is	the	day	you	stop	living	in	False	Positive.	False	Positive	is	the
single	most	dangerous	deterrent	to	financial	success.	It	tricks	you	into	believing
that	you	aren’t	broke	just	because	you’re	able	to	make	ends	meet.	
You	need	to
realize	that	even	when	you’re	paying	your	bills	on	time	and	have	a	little
extra	left	over	in	the	bank,	the	moment	you	factor	in	future	expenses	of
retirement,	child	care,	and	health	care,	your	financial	picture	starts	to	look
grim.	Most	people	think	that	being	broke	is	only	for	the	lowest	earners,	but
many	people	who	earn	good	money	are	actually	broke,	too.
	Here’s	a	simple
rule	of	thumb	to	figure	out	whether	you’re	broke:	You’re	broke	if	you	
have
	to	go
to	work	each	day	to	earn	a	paycheck	to	pay	your	bills	this	week,	and	you	don’t
have	much	of	a	choice	about	it.	Broke	is	being	unable	to	quit	your	dead-end	job
to	free	yourself	up	to	look	for	a	better	one	because	you	can’t	afford	to	go	two	to
three	months	without	a	paycheck.	Broke	is	a	terrible	place	to	live.	There’s	no
freedom	and	certainly	no	wiggle	room	in	the	event	of	a	crisis.	If	you	haven’t
taken	a	long,	hard	look	at	how	close	you	are	to	being	broke,	you’re	not	just	lying
to	others	about	how	well	you’re	doing	.	.	.	you’re	lying	to	yourself.	You	will
look	for	
any	
evidence	that	you	are	doing	better	than	you	think:	closing	a	small
deal,	or	getting	a	3	percent	yearly	raise,	even	getting	a	tax	refund	check	(which
is	really	your	own	money	you’ve	let	Uncle	Sam	hold	for	a	year).	But	these	little
bumps	don’t	create	wealth.	They	are	
just	helping	you	live	in	False	Positive,
making	you	think	that	you’re	doing	okay.	The	False	Positive	test	at	the	end	of
this	chapter	will	help	you	determine	whether	you’re	really	doing	okay	or	just
fooling	yourself.
THE	NUMBERS	YOU’RE	AIMING	FOR	ARE	TOO	LOW
Part	of	what	keeps	many	people	in	False	Positive	is	a	warped	sense	of	what
counts	as	good	money	today.
$100K	Ain’t	What	It	Used	to	Be
When	I	graduated	from	college	in	1991,	in	order	to	be	considered	in	the	top	1
percent	of	all	earners	in	America,	you	needed	to	earn	$100,000	per	year.	Today,
in	order	to	be	in	the	top	1	percent	of	all	earners	you	need	to	earn	$384,000	per
year.	You	can	see	instantly	how	$100,000	doesn’t	stretch	how	it	used	to.	Yet	so
many	people	still	think	that	$100,000	is	a	lot	of	money.	And	look,	if	you	don’t
earn	anywhere	close	to	that,	then,	yes,	$100,000	is	a	lot	of	money	to	you.	But
just	because	you	don’t	earn	it	doesn’t	mean	it’s	good.	It’s	fine	to	chase	a
number,	as	long	as	it’s	accurate,	but,	when	it	comes	to	money,	most	of	us	are
still	chasing	numbers	that	have	long	passed	their	level	of	meaningfulness.
Let	me	show	you	exactly	what	I	mean	by	simply	comparing	the	cost	of	basic
living	expenses	from	2000	versus	2014.	You	will	quickly	see	that	it	simply	takes
more	money	to	live.
2000
2014
Average	home	price
$161,000
$242,000
Average	monthly	rent
$635
$890
New	car
$20,300
$31,500
Movie	ticket
$5.25
$10.25
Gas	(per	gallon)
$1.27
$3.51
Annual	health	care
$4,550
$9,300
Basically,	the	cost	of	living	has	increased	31	percent	between	2000	and
2014.	But	the	earning	power	of	most	Americans	has	not	kept	up.	During	this
time,	the	wages	of	the	lowest	percentile	of	wage	earners	has	actually	
decreased
by	3	percent	and	the	highest	bracket	of	earners	has	only	increased	9	percent.
What	that	means	is	that	the	lowest	income	bracket	actually	
lost
	income	and
buying	power.	Therefore,	regardless	of	whether	you	are	at	the	top	or	the	bottom
of	the	earning	scale,	your	wage	increase	has	not	kept	up	with	the	increase	in
living	expenses.	Without	a	doubt,	the	money	has	moved.	Have	you	moved	with
it?
Being	a	Millionaire	Isn’t	Good	Enough	Either
All	right,	you	might	be	thinking,	if	an	annual	income	of	$100,000	isn’t	good
enough,	maybe	I	should	be	dreaming	of	becoming	a	
millionaire.	So	many	of	us
are	still	chasing	the	millionaire	dream.	It	just	sounds	so	nice:	“I’m	a
Millionaire.”
There	is	only	one	problem.	If	you	can	get	any	millionaire	to	open	up	about
it,	they’ll	tell	you	it’s	not	as	much	as	you	think	it	is.	Becoming	a	millionaire	was
a	worthy	goal	in	the	1950s,	’60s,	and	maybe	the	’70s,	but	since	those	decades,	it
just	isn’t	what	it	once	was.	As	I’ve	just	shown	you,	a	dollar	doesn’t	stretch	like	it
used	to.	And	while	being	a	millionaire	is	nice,	it	certainly	doesn’t	have	the	same
impact	as	it	did	even	as	little	as	a	decade	ago.	Remember,	the	money	has	moved.
What’s	more,	it’s	still	moving.	If	a	dollar	doesn’t	stretch	now	as	far	as	it
used	to,	it’s	going	to	stretch	even	less	by	the	time	you	hit	retirement.
I	say	all	this	to	make	one	point:	
you	need	more	than	$1	million	when	you
retire.
Let’s	look	at	a	million-dollar	retirement	investment.	If	you	have	$1	million
saved	up	by	retirement	and	you	put	it	in	a	conservative	investment	of	tax-free
municipal	bonds	that	pay	a	3	percent	annual	rate	of	return,	your	million	will	pay
you	$30,000	a	year,	or	$2,500	a	month.	Add	to	it	the	average	Social	Security
benefit	(if	it	doesn’t	run	out	.	.	.)	of	$1,366	a	month,	and	your	“millionaire
status”	affords	you	a	lifestyle	of	$3,866	a	month.	And	let’s	not	forget	that	$3,866
in	the	future	will	not	stretch	as	much	as	it	does	today.	It’s	not	exactly	going	to
pay	for	Tuscany	in	the	summer,	a	first-class	flight	to	Bali,	or	any	of	the	other
fantasies	you	imagined	in	your	golden	years	as	a	millionaire.	And	helping	
your
son	or	daughter	pay	for	your	grandchildren’s	education?	Forget	about	it.	
Your
kids
	are	going	to	be	paying	for	you	to	come	visit	them.
Let’s	say	you	wanted	to	live	on	$100,000	per	year	in	retirement.	Your	tax-
free	municipal	bond	investment	and	your	entire	nest	egg	would	be	gone	in
approximately	eleven	years.	The	average	American	life	expectancy	of	a	man	is
pushing	eighty	years	old,	and	a	woman	pushing	slightly	higher	than	eighty	years
old.	Therefore,	if	you	retired	at	sixty-five	years	old,	you	would	be	broke	by
seventy-six	and	still	have	four	(or	more)	years	to	live.
Once	again,	while	a	million	dollars	is	substantially	more	than	the	average
American	has	saved	in	their	life,	it’s	not	nearly	as	much	as	you	think.	I	need	you
to	get	this	point.	Don’t	compare	yourself	to	the	average	American	because	the
average	American	struggles	to	make	ends	meet	in	retirement.	The	purpose	of
this	book	is	to	open	up	your	eyes,	reignite	your	fuel,	to	squash	your
complacency,	and	to	give	you	the	road	map	to	not	just	1	million	dollars,	but
millions
	of	dollars	to	live	the	life	and	achieve	the	dreams	that	most	of	us	actually
have.
ACTION	STEP:	THE	FALSE	POSITIVE	TEST
Think	you’re	above	all	this?	Then	take	my	False	Positive	test	and	we’ll	see:
How	many	of	the	statements	below	are	true	of	your	current	financial
situation?
1.	
You	have	at	least	six	months	of	savings—not	401(k),	not	retirement,	but
cash	sitting	in	the	bank.	If	you	lost	your	job	today,	your	savings	would
cover	you	for	all	your	expenses	for	six	months.
2.	
You	have	a	credit	rating	of	700	or	above.
3.	
You	are	paying	your	bills	from	current	cash	and	not	from	debt.
4.	
For	every	decade	starting	with	age	twenty,	you	have:
Age	20–29—you	have	1X	(one	full	year	of)	your	annual	income	or
more	as	your	net	worth.	Net	worth	is	simply	your	assets	(what	you
own)	minus	your	liabilities	(what	you	owe).
Age	30–39—you	have	3X	(three	full	years	of)	your	annual	income
or	more	as	your	net	worth.
Age	40–49—you	have	5X	(five	full	years	of)	your	annual	income	or
more	as	your	net	worth.
Age	50	and	above—you	have	10X	(ten	full	years	of)	your	annual
income	or	more	as	your	net	worth.
If	you	have	fewer	than	three	of	the	four	.	.	.	WARNING:	FALSE	POSITIVE
ALERT.	You’re	playing	with	fire,	and	it	could	all	change	in	an	instant.	If	you’re
confused	about	how	well	you’re	really	doing,	let	me	break	the	news	for	you:
You	are	broke
	and	you	need	to	fix	that	immediately.	Over	the	next	few
chapters,	I’m	going	to	show	you	exactly	how.
If	you	have	items	one,	two,	and	three	covered,	congratulations,	you’re	better
off	than	most	people.	You	have	the	flexibility	
to	quit	and	look	for	a	higher-
paying	job,	or	cushion	yourself	from	a	minor	crisis	like	a	fender	bender.	But	you
still
	need	more	money	if	you	want	to	have	any	hope	of	doing	the	things	you’ve
dreamed	of,	whether	it’s	retiring	at	forty-five	or	paying	for	your	kids	to	go	to	a
private	academy.	But	you’re	not	really	out	of	False	Positive	until	you	satisfy	the
conditions	of	item	four.	This	formula	works	as	an	incredible	baseline	for	you	to
base	your	financial	health	against.	Let	me	explain	why:
The	Key	Formula—1X,	3X,	5X,	10X
I’ve	tested	this	formula	against	hundreds	of	people.	I	have	tested	it	against	the
poorest	and	the	wealthiest	people	I	know,	and	we	all	agree	it	works	and	is
accurate.	The	reason	this	formula	works	so	well	is	that	it	forces	both	low	earners
and	high	earners	to	check	their	spending.	I	know	people	who	earn	$250,000	per
year,	who	are	in	their	fifties,	and	have	less	than	1X	their	annual	income	as	their
net	worth.	This	is	why	most	Americans	are	actually	broke.	They	spend	it	all.
If	you	are	twenty-five	years	old	and	earn	$50,000	per	year	in	income,	you
should	have	a	net	worth	of	$50,000.	This	means	that	you	should	have	assets
(what	you	own)	minus	liabilities	(what	you	owe)	that	equal	$50,000.
As	your	income	and	age	increase,	so	does	the	demand	for	a	more	robust	net
worth.	
In	the	final	stage	of	my	formula,	you	will	be	in	your	fifties	and	you
should	have	a	net	worth	of	10X	your	annual	income.	Thus,	if	you	are
earning	$250,000	per	
year	at	that	time,	you	should	have	a	net	worth	of
$2,500,000.	Do	this	math	now,	and	determine	your	own	result.
Odds	are,	you	are	behind—way	behind.	In	some	cases,	you’re	still	broke,	so
you’re	going	to	need	to	keep	reading.	But	trust	me,	I’m	going	to	help	you	get
ahead	of	the	curve	to	get	out	of	broke	faster—which	is	good	for	
you!