CHAPTER	2
Fixing	Your	Money	Mind-set
PANIC	MODE
Rokki	called	me	in	a	panic	on	that	Tuesday	to	tell	me	my	brother-in-law	John
was	admitted	to	the	emergency	room	and	of	his	diagnosis.	John	had	advanced
germ	cell	cancer.	This	is	a	type	of	cancer	normally	reserved	for	young	boys,	with
a	high	cure	rate.	Unfortunately,	adults	with	germ	cell	have	a	much	lower	cure
rate.	The	cancer	gets	into	their	lungs,	and,	according	to	the	editorial	board	at
www.cancer.net,	while	children	have	a	survival	rate	of	87	percent,	it	is	much,
much	lower	in	adults.	If	you’ve	ever	received	news	like	this,	you	know	the
strength	of	the	gut	punch	it	delivers.	It	takes	your	breath	away	in	an	instant.
Every	emotion	in	your	body	fires	up	on	the	spot	and	it	is	a	miracle	you	can	stand
up	straight.	For	my	wife	and	Gigi,	they	couldn’t.	When	I	arrived	home	they	were
sobbing	uncontrollably.	How	could	this	happen	
to	John?	He	was	the	only	man	in
their	lives,	other	than	me,	who	had	never	left	them.
As	a	businessman,	I	went	into	fix-it	mode.	We	put	a	plan	together,	and
getting	John	better	was	our	mission.	We	questioned	the	doctors,	Googled
everything,	and	pulled	together	to	beat	this	thing.	Within	a	day,	Rokki	and	I	had
what	was	like	a	task	force	assembled	between	our	family,	John’s	family,	and
Jennell,	and	Gigi,	and	we	were	going	to	be	a	force	to	be	reckoned	with.	I	went	to
see	John	to	talk	about	the	money.	Don’t	fool	yourself—there	is	no	zero-down
financing	with	cancer.	You	need	to	have	insurance	and	some	real	cash	working
for	you	to	get	the	best	treatment.	I	told	him	that	together	we	were	going	to	kick
cancer	and	he	was	going	to	be	okay.
“Let	me	help	you,”	I	said.	“You	focus	on	getting	better	and	I	will	handle	the
financial	details.	Let’s	talk	about	how	we	can	work	with	your	insurance	provider
to	get	you	the	best	care.	Who	is	your	insurance	provider?”
John	looked	at	me.	“I	don’t	have	insurance,”	he	responded.
“No	insurance?”	I	said.
“No	insurance?”	I	said.
“None,”	said	John.
“Okay,”	I	said.	“How	about	cash?	How	much	do	you	and	Lori	have?”
“Less	than	a	hundred	bucks,”	he	said.
“No	health	insurance	and	less	than	a	hundred	dollars	in	the	bank?”	I	replied.
I	was	puzzled.	“I	don’t	understand.	You’ve	worked	for	more	than	twenty-five
years.	Some	years	were	lean,	but	some	were	good	years	for	you.	I	thought	you
had	a	401(k)	when	you	worked	for	the	BMW	dealer?”
“I	did,	but	I	cashed	it	in	a	few	years	ago.”	He	paused	and	looked	away.
“Matt,	there’s	more.	I’m	ten	months	behind	on	the	rent	on	the	house.”
As	nuts	as	it	sounds,	John	was	actually	ten	months	behind	on	his	rent	and,
charmer	that	he	was,	kept	talking	his	landlord	into	letting	him	stay.
John	took	a	deep	breath.	“I	don’t	have	life	insurance	either.	If	we	don’t	kick
this	.	.	.	my	family	will	have	nothing.	Zero.	Not	a	dime.”
I	kept	a	stern	face	for	John,	but	inside,	I	was	in	shock.	My	mind	was	racing
on	this	news.	How	could	this	have	happened?	After	more	than	twenty-five	years
of	work,	John	literally	had	no	life	insurance,	no	health	insurance,	a	rented	house,
and	less	than	$100	in	the	bank.	I	had	had	a	sense	that	John	was	behind
financially,	but	I	never	could	have	imagined	such	a	dire	situation.
John	had	always	been	handsome,	a	sharp	dresser,	and	good	with	small	talk,
which	made	everyone	like	him	instantly—especially	me.	We	had	known	each
other	for	nineteen	years	and	during	that	time,	we	never	had	a	cross	word.	But	the
one	thing	he	never	liked	to	discuss	was	money.	When	he	was	between	jobs,	I
often	tried	to	bring	up	the	question	of	finances,	but	John	always	shut	down	the
conversation	by	saying,	“I	have	time.	I	know	I’m	behind,	but	I	have	time.”	John
had	worked	for	me	twice,	and	despite	how	difficult	it	can	be	to	work	with
family,	for	us	it	was	fine.	I	always	wanted	to	help	John	move	to	the	next	level
financially,	especially	because	Rokki	wanted	her	brother	to	be	elevated	past
broke.	But	our	time	in	the	office	together	didn’t	create	the	results	
any	of	us
wanted.	When	we	parted	ways,	both	times,	it	never	created	issues	between	us.
John	always	knew	that	I	would	love	and	cherish	his	baby	sister,	and	I’m	sure	that
had	a	lot	to	do	with	our	friendship.
John	and	I	talked	often	about	what	his	true	calling	or	his	superpower	might
be,	and	we	realized	it	was	in	the	church.	John	was	powerful	and	accepted	in	the
church.	He	was	himself	there,	and	he	could	have	been	an	amazing	youth	pastor,
or	maybe	even	pastor	of	a	church.	But	instead,	because	he	always	was	behind
with	money,	he	spent	most	of	his	career	as	a	salesperson,	struggling	to	get	out
from	under	his	debts.	The	pressure	of	constantly	borrowing	from	Peter	to	pay
from	under	his	debts.	The	pressure	of	constantly	borrowing	from	Peter	to	pay
Paul	steals	freedom	from	millions	and	millions	of	people,	and	it	stole	from	my
brother-in-law	John.	It	stole	opportunity,	happiness,	a	good	night’s	sleep,	quality
time	with	his	kids,	and	his	freedom	to	live	his	Lifestyle	by	Design.	In	the	end,
cancer	and	the	stress	of	chasing	money	stole	his	life.
Why	was	John	so	secretive	about	his	finances?	Why	are	any	of	us	so
secretive?	How	did	the	discussion	of	money	become	so	private	and	guarded?
Maybe	it’s	because	we	feel	ashamed	when	we’re	not	doing	well	and
embarrassed	when	we	are.	When	we’re	not	doing	well,	we	think	it	says
something	about	our	character	and	who	we	are	at	our	core.	We	know	we	could—
and	should—be	doing	better,	so	we	don’t	want	to	let	people	know	where	we	are
lest	we	be	judged.	When	we	are	doing	well,	we’re	nervous	that	people	will	judge
us	as	boastful	or	moneygrubbing.	The	first	step	to	fixing	your	money	mind-set	is
to	let	go	of	these	anxieties	and	
accept	the	truth	of	your	financial	situation.	Get
honest	with	it	all	now,	with	yourself	and	with	the	people	who	matter	to	you.
Don’t	wait	until	it	is	too	late	to	get	real	with	your	money	situation.	If	you	don’t
face	the	truth	voluntarily,	you’ll	eventually	be	forced	to	face	it.
“Matt,”	John	said	to	me,	“I	can’t	earn	money	now.	Please	do	me	a	favor:
don’t	let	my	family	go	homeless.”
When	you	look	into	the	eyes	of	a	friend	or	family	member	who	has	been
diagnosed	with	stage	4	cancer,	you	see	right	through	to	his	heart.	There	is	no
disguising	that	he	might	die.	The	truth	jumps	out	at	you	like	a	fire	that	just	got	a
dose	of	lighter	fluid.	I	saw	firsthand	how	the	guilt	of	not	being	prepared	in	a	life-
and-death	situation	creates	the	ultimate	vulnerability.	As	I	looked	at	John,	after
these	revelations,	I	had	only	one	answer	for	him,	the	answer	that	Rokki	and	I
would	both	easily	come	to	agree	upon.
“There	isn’t	a	snowball’s	chance	in	hell	that	Rokki	or	I	would	ever	let	that
happen,”	I	assured	him.	“I	promise	you.	We	will	handle	the	money	situation	for
you.	We	got	you,	John.	Rokki	and	I	got	you	covered.	You	just	focus	on	getting
better.”
I	hugged	him	and	left	to	get	to	work.
HOW	I	LEARNED	TO	BE	HONEST	ABOUT	MONEY
For	many	of	my	years	in	business,	I	was	broke	or	nearly	broke,	and	I	couldn’t	be
honest	about	it,	not	even	with	my	own	wife.
In	the	early	days	of	our	marriage,	on	Friday	nights,	when	I	
got	home	after	a
long	week	of	busting	my	ass,	Rokki	would	ask	me,	“How	did	we	do	this	week?”
Most	Friday	nights	I	would	lie	to	her	and	tell	her	we	did	well.	She	would
smile	and	leave	it	alone	.	.	.	until	the	cracks	in	my	lies	started	to	show.	Like
when	our	electric	got	cut	off	and	we	couldn’t	pay	the	full	balance.
I	made	up	a	convoluted	explanation	for	why	we	were	behind	on	our	bills.	I
was	too	much	of	a	wimp	to	tell	her	the	simple	truth:	that	we	didn’t	have	the
money	to	pay	the	bill	in	full.	I	ended	up	having	to	borrow	money	just	to	make
the	minimum	payment	to	get	the	lights	turned	back	on.
This	game	went	on	for	too	long	in	our	marriage.	Not	for	days,	weeks,	or
months,	but	
years
.	Years	of	hiding	behind	a	struggling	business	that	could	barely
pay	my	household	bills,	let	alone	fund	savings,	retirement,	or	college	accounts.
Most	Fridays	I	would	lie	and	tell	my	wife	business	was	good,	and	as	long	as	the
lights	were	turned	on,	she	would	leave	it	alone.
Gradually,	though,	Rokki	started	to	see	through	my	BS.	When	business
started	to	take	such	a	bad	turn	that	I	couldn’t	even	borrow	money	to	make	up	the
shortfall,	it	became	impossible	to	hide	it,	and	Rokki	stopped	being	nice	about	it.
I	slowly	realized	that	I	couldn’t	keep	up	this	pattern	of	lies,	and	had	to	come
clean.	I	remember	the	one	Friday	night	when	I	decided	to	finally	tell	Rokki	the
truth,	without	making	excuses	or	trying	to	sugarcoat	it.	I	came	clean	about
everything	.	.	.	that	I	hadn’t	been	telling	her	the	truth	about	the	real	state	of	our
finances.	That	we	were	actually	struggling	and	not	doing	as	well	as	I	had	led	her
to	believe.
Rokki	asked	me	if	I	paid	myself	for	the	week,	and	I	said,	“No.”
She	looked	at	me	with	disgust.	“How	could	you	do	that	to	us?	How	could
you	do	that	to	me	and	our	boys?”	Then	she	said,	“I’m	going	to	ask	you	one	more
question,	did	you	pay	your	employees?”
I	said,	“Yes.”
When	I	told	her	this,	she	lost	her	mind.	She	started	stamping	her	feet	and
crying	uncontrollably.
“What	is	the	matter	with	you?	Why	would	you	choose	your	employees	over
us?	One	day,	Matt,	you	will	realize	you	are	so	much	bigger	than	your	business.”
Then	she	ran	into	our	bedroom	and	slammed	the	door,	leaving	me	in	silence.
I	spent	the	night	on	the	couch,	unable	to	sleep.	I	was	used	to	disappointing
myself	for	years,	but	my	wife?	My	boys?	My	family?	Disappointing	her	was	the
ultimate	low.	She	didn’t	care	about	the	money.	Hell,	when	we	married	I	had
nothing,	so	love	was	all	we	had.	But	she	sure	as	hell	didn’t	like	being	lied	to.
Coming	clean	and	facing	Rokki’s	anger	and	disappointment	were	the	catalysts	I
Coming	clean	and	facing	Rokki’s	anger	and	disappointment	were	the	catalysts	I
needed	to	change.	That	night,	I	resolved	to	do	two	things:	(1)	build	a	$100
million	business,	and	(2)	make	sure	my	wife	never	worried	about	our	money
situation	again.
Today,	I	can	proudly	say	that	I’ve	done	both.	My	first	company,
Commercial	Fleet	Financing,	Inc.,	has	now	funded	over	$1	billion	in	equipment
loans	and	leases.	We	are	one	of	the	largest	
independent	finance	companies	in	the
equipment	financing	industry.	After	I	made	that	commitment	on	the	couch	that
night,	it	took	me	only	eighteen	months	to	reach	the	$100-million-per-year	goal	I
set	on	that	Friday	night	on	the	couch,	and	my	sweet	Rokki	never	asked	me	about
our	money	situation	again.	Just	eighteen	months	later,	I	wasn’t	just	out	of	the
poorhouse—I	had	rocketed	out	of	the	middle	class	forever.
GETTING	HONEST	IS	THE	KEY
How	did	I	turn	my	business	around	in	such	a	short	time,	when	I	had	struggled
for	years	just	to	keep	it	afloat?	It	all	changed	that	night	I	decided	to	come	clean.
The	relief	I	felt	at	telling	Rokki	the	truth	was	incredible.	I	no	longer	felt	that
suffocating	guilt	that	had	been	driving	a	wedge	between	us.	You	know	that
feeling,	don’t	you?	The	lack	of	self-worth,	the	shame	that	the	lie	causes	you	to
feel.	Facing	the	facts	and	putting	on	my	big-boy	pants	to	tell	my	wife	the	truth
was	liberating.	When	I	stopped	worrying	about	maintaining	the	appearance	of
doing	okay,	I	was	able	to	free	myself	to	focus	on	fixing	the	business	and	get	on
track	to	not	be	average.	I	committed	to	altering	the	situation	once	and	for	all.	I
drew	a	line	in	the	sand	on	that	day,	and	that	was	all	it	took	for	me	to	blast	off
with	100	percent,	unwavering	commitment.
You	have	that	same	power.	The	power	to	draw	a	line	in	the	sand	today,
right	now,	that	will	remove	the	guilt,	clean	the	slate,	and	catapult	you	to
financial	freedom.	
Stop	lying	to	
yourself	and	everyone	else.	
Commit	to
owning	your	current	financial	situation	and	stop	the	cover-up.
I	will	walk	with	you	side	by	side	as	you	read	this	book,	to	provide	you	with
the	support	and	the	real-life	tactics	that	will	set	you	free	and	allow	you	to	put
your	money	guilt	behind	you	once	and	for	all.
We	constantly	lie	to	ourselves	and	hide	the	truth	about	our	finances	from	the
people	around	us.	But	getting	honest	is	the	first	step	to	breaking	out	of	our	fear
of	money	and	empowering	ourselves	to	take	control	of	it.
Money	wants	to	be	submissive.	It	wants	you	to	tame	it,	to	take	full	control	of
it,	and	manhandle	it.	But	until	you	decide	to	do	just	that,	it	will	boss	and	slap	you
it,	and	manhandle	it.	But	until	you	decide	to	do	just	that,	it	will	boss	and	slap	you
around.	It’s	time	to	move	up	the	food	chain,	get	out	of	Broke	and	the	middle
class,	and	move	into	Rich.	And	it	all	starts	with	recognizing	and	changing	your
money	mind-set.
WHAT’S	YOUR	MONEY	MIND-SET?
Many	people	do	not	earn	the	income	they	deserve	or	need	because	of	the
pressure	their	surroundings	put	on	them	regarding	money.	They	have	either
grown	up	with,	or	bought	into,	a	mind-set	based	on	their	circumstances,	and	that
determines	how	they	feel,	talk	about,	and	act	toward	money.
The	way	I	see	it,	you	can	sort	people	into	three	categories	depending	on	the
mind-set	they	currently	have	about	money:	the	Blamers,	the	Dreamers,	and	the
Game	Facers.
Every	broke	person	I	know	has	the	same	mind-set	about	money,	which	is
why	I	call	them	the	“Blamers.”
Besides	the	fact	that	a	person	with	a	Blamer	mind-set	will	never	admit	the
truth	about	their	money,	here’s	what	you	can	expect	to	hear	from	a	Blamer:
“Money	won’t	make	you	happy.”
“I’m	not	money-motivated.”
“Money	is	the	root	of	all	evil.”
“The	economy	is	bad.”
“I	didn’t	grow	up	with	money	.	.	.”
The	Blamers	are	the	ones	who	would	much	rather	not	have	conversations
about	money	and,	when	they	do,	are	always	full	of	excuses	for	why	they’re
broke.	They	make	these	excuses	because	in	reality,	they	think	their	financial
situation	is	never	their	fault	and	they	believe	there’s	nothing	they	can	do	to
change	it.	Blamers	also	find	ways	to	trick	themselves	into	thinking	they	have
enough.
Meanwhile,	every	stuck-in-middle-class	person	I	know	has	the	same	mind-
set	about	money:	I	call	them	the	“Dreamers.”	I	know	I’m	talking	to	a	Dreamer
when	I	hear	things	like:
“I	need	more	money,	but	I	don’t	know	how	to	get	it.”
“Someday	.	.	.	when	I	win	the	lottery.”
“When	I	become	a	millionaire	.	.	.”
“I’m	doing	okay	and	if	I	just	work	a	little	harder,	I’ll	get	there.”
Dreamers	want	to	make	more	money	but	they	aren’t	
doing
	anything	to	make
those	dreams	a	reality.	They	think	that	more	money	will	just	happen	to	them
without	understanding	that	they	need	to	work	smarter	and	get	in	gear	to	go	and
get	it	for	themselves.
Finally,	every	rich	person	I	know	has	the	same	mind-set	about	money,
which	garners	them	the	label	“Game	Facers.”	They	say	things	like:
“I	need	more	money,	I’ve	worked	out	a	plan	for	how	I’m	going	to	get	it,
and	I’m	putting	my	plan	into	action.”
“Money	solves	problems.”
“Money	is	a	tool	that	should	be	used	to	make	more	money.”
“Money	provides	me	
freedom,
	and	freedom	is	the	end	goal.”
Game	Facers	always	have	their	game	face	on	and	want	nothing	more	than	to
jump	in	and	face	the	game	when	it	comes	to	their	financial	situation.	They	don’t
mess	around—they	are	ready	to	play	offense	when	it	comes	to	their	finances,
and	they	play	the	game	of	money	to	win.
I’ve	observed	these	mind-sets	in	action	on	the	second	Tuesday	of	every
month	at	a	poker	game	that’s	been	hosted	by	my	old	neighbor	Stanley	(you	will
hear	more	about	him	later)	for	the	past	thirteen	years.	The	same	group	shows	up
every	month,	and	most	of	them	are	about	twenty-five	years	older	than	me.
Whenever	we’re	at	Stanley’s	place,	something	fascinating	happens	when	the
topic	of	money	comes	up.	My	friend	Stanley,	arguably	the	most	
well-off
member,	is	always	happy	to	talk	about	money.	Jack,	who	made	a	ton	of	money
and	saved	a	ton	of	it,	almost	feels	guilty	because	of	his	money,	but	never	shies
away	from	getting	into	a	discussion	about	it.	Stanley	and	Jack	are	both	clear
Game	Facers.	Mike,	who	had	money	and	lost	it,	wants	us	all	to	still	think	he	has
it—because	he	is	a	Dreamer,	he	isn’t	awake	to	the	fact	that	he	is	broke.	Bobby,
who	made	a	lot	of	money	and	has	a	wife	who	refuses	to	let	him	keep	it	because
of	their	spending	habits,	has	clouded	his	mind	to	think	he	has	enough—another
trait	of	classic	Dreamers,	who	don’t	live	in	reality	that	they	are	not	okay.	And
Charley,	who	never	really	made	a	lot	of	money,	spent	every	last	dime	of	it,	and
is	the	first	to	ask	if	he	can	take	your	plate	to	the	kitchen	when	we	talk	about
money	(he	literally	leaves	the	room	when	we	talk	about	money)—yup,	he’s	a
Blamer.
And	then	there’s	me:	twenty-five	years	younger	than	these	guys,	and	for
most	of	the	history	of	the	game,	I	didn’t	have	any	real	money	(I	was	a	Dreamer
for	way	too	long	before	I	got	it	together	and	became	a	Game	Facer).	But	even
though	there	were	moments	during	all	that	time	when	I	felt	ashamed	by	how
broke	I	was,	I	never	shied	away	from	a	conversation	about	money.	I	knew	I
wasn’t	going	to	learn	anything	or	change	if	I	didn’t	see	talking	about	money	as
an	opportunity.	Instead,	I	perked	my	ears	up,	listened,	and	asked	questions.
When	Stanley	or	Jack	had	something	to	say	on	the	topic	of	money,	I	made	sure
to	pay	attention	and	understand	what	they	were	talking	about	and	how	they
learned	what	they	knew.	These	two	guys	had	played	the	game	right,	had	worked
their	way	to	real	wealth,	and	I	was	lucky	
enough	to	be	at	a	table	with	them.
Every	poker	night	was	an	opportunity	for	me	to	learn	from	them,	and	work
through	my	money	struggles	so	that	they	could	tell	it	to	me	straight	and	help	me
reach	my	full	potential.
BLAME	NO	ONE	BUT	YOURSELF
The	Blamer	mind-set	is	toxic	to	success.	The	first	step	to	getting	out	of	it	is
admitting	that	your	money	situation	is	your	fault.	It’s	not	the	fault	of	the	people
with	the	money,	or	the	government,	or	your	parents,	or	your	employer.	You
either	have	enough	money	or	you	don’t,	and	either	way,	you	have	no	one	to
blame	but	yourself.	It	is	not	the	government	who	kept	you	from	paying	your
bills.	It	is	not	the	billionaire	fat	cats	on	Wall	Street	who	took	your	piece	of	the
American	pie.	It’s	not	because	your	parents	didn’t	have	enough	money	either.	In
the	end,	when	all	the	BS	you,	your	friends,	and	your	deadbeat	family	members
tell	you	is	over,	it	is	
you
	who	put	you	where	you	are.
The	good	news	is,	you’re	in	control.	By	owning	all	of	your	financial
missteps,	you	can	start	to	take	steps	in	the	right	direction.	
It’s	all	up	to	you—
and	only	you.	If	you	pull	yourself	out	of	Broke,	you	are	the	reason.	If	you
started	from	nothing	and	have	made	it	to	the	middle	class,	give	yourself	a
quick	pat	on	the	back	because	you	got	yourself	there.	But	don’t	for	a	second
forget	the	message	of	this	book:	regardless	of	your	current	financial	status,
YOU	NEED	MORE	MONEY,	I	NEED	MORE	MONEY,	WE	ALL	NEED
MORE	MONEY!
	There	is	no	time	to	
rest	on	your	laurels—it’s	back	to	the
grind	until	you	have	enough	money	to	live	the	life	that	matches	your	wants,
wishes,	and	needs—what	I	call	the	ability	to	lead	your	Lifestyle	by	Design
—
your
	design.
Now,	a	death	or	divorce	
can
	hurt	you	financially	and	may	be	out	of	your
control.	Divorce	and	death	are	both	very	real	and	rarely	do	they	provide	financial
benefit,	if	not	leave	you	completely	financially	unaffected.	But	even	in	the	face
of	these	difficulties,	it	is	YOU	who	must	pull	yourself	up	by	your	bootstraps	and
fix	it.	You	have	to	come	to	grips	with	the	fact	that—for	better	or	for	worse—you
are	in	control	of	the	situation.	Your	boss	did	not	make	you	broke.	Neither	did	the
company	you	work	for.	In	fact,	both	of	them	contributed	to	your	success	by
paying	you	a	check	that	is	cashable	at	the	end	of	every	pay	period.	You	and	your
employer	made	a	deal	when	you	started	working:	You	would	provide	the
company	with	effort	and	hopefully	results,	and	they	would	provide	you	with	a
check	that	clears.	Most	companies	will	honor	this	agreement	for	a	very	long
time.
What	if	you	work	for	a	company	at	which	the	check	they	provide	you
doesn’t	clear?	Or	you	freelance,	or	have	work	on	the	side,	and	provide	services
to	a	client	who	doesn’t	pay	on	time?	Well,	once	again,	that	is	your	fault	for
sticking	around.	I	am	amazed	at	how	many	people	I	interview	who	tell	me	that
the	reason	they	are	leaving	their	current	position	is	because	their	employer
bounced	their	paycheck.	When	I	push	them	for	how	long	this	has	been	going	on,
the	answer	is	always	weeks	or	months.	It	is	
never
	once.	They	stayed	with	the
employer	out	of	
loyalty,	fear,	or	stupidity.	They	told	themselves	it	would	be	fine,
and	fell	into	False	Positive.	Every	time	I	encounter	one	of	these	people	and	hear
these	excuses,	I	have	to	snap	them	out	of	it:	you	are	the	person	that	didn’t	have
the	balls	to	stop	being	taken	advantage	of	and	leave.	I	understand	it	is	easier	to
blame	“the	man,”	but	in	order	to	get	closer	to	having	more	money,	you	need	to
take	full	responsibility	for	your	future	
and
	current	money	situation.
Drop	the	BS.	No	more	excuses	about	who	or	what	is	keeping	you	down.
When	people	are	successful,	others	say	and	think	things	about	them	like,	“Wow,
they	really	made	something	of	themselves!”	or	“They	really	worked	hard	for
their	success!”	Well,	just	as	you	can	take	the	credit	for	financial	success,
unfortunately,	you	have	to	take	all	the	blame	for	failure,	too.	If	you	end	up
settling	for	a	small	life,	it	will	be	your	fault.	If	you	end	up	living	a	life	filled	with
adventure,	luxury,	and	no	financial	worries,	you	will	be	able	to	take	all	the
credit.	This	choice	is	now	yours	to	make.
YOU	HAVE	TO	DREAM,	BUT	DON’T	STAY	A	DREAMER
Too	many	people	are	stuck	in	the	Dreamer	mind-set.	I	know	you’re	thinking:
Matt,	how	can	I	live	the	life	of	my	dreams	if	I	don’t	dream	in	the	first	place?
Dreaming	is	how	I	know	what	to	work	for	and	where	to	go.
	I	get	it.	And	you’re
right,	you	do.	
In	order	to	achieve	greatness,	you	need	to	dream	big	and
visualize	
the	life	you’ve	always	wanted.	
And	hey,	Dreamers	are	great	at	doing
this,	but	they	also	get	stuck	dreaming,	never	really	achieving	progress	toward
their	goals.	It’s	all	dreaming,	no	action.	I’m	sure	you	have	a	friend	like	this,	the
one	who’s	always	talking	about	how	much	money	she’s	going	to	make	when	she
quits	her	dead-end	job	and	starts	her	own	business,	how	clients	will	be	lined	up
outside	her	door,	and	how	she’s	going	to	use	that	newfound	wealth	to	travel	the
world	.	.	.	except	none	of	it	ever	materializes.	Your	friend	keeps	working	the
same	dead-end	job,	promising	that	she’s	going	to	quit	when	the	time	is	right.
This	kind	of	dreaming	is	never	going	to	take	you	anywhere	and	it’s	the	kind	that
paralyzes	your	financial	situation.	In	the	next	chapter	I’m	going	to	show	you	a
structured	way	to	dream	your	ideal	life,	and	then	give	you	the	concrete	steps	you
need	to	turn	that	from	a	dream	into	reality.
GAME	FACERS	HAVE	SELF-ESTEEM	AND	ASK	THE	RIGHT
QUESTIONS
The	one	thing	all	Blamers	and	Dreamers	have	in	common	is	a	lack	of	self-
esteem.	Before	you	can	start	to	close	your	money	gap,	you’ve	got	to	remove	all
the	obstacles	keeping	you	from	your	financial	goal	line.	It’s	going	to	take	guts	to
make	the	millions	of	dollars	you	need	to	get	you	and	your	family	into	a	position
that	allows	you	to	lead	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.	In	order	to	have	the	guts	to
start	the	course,	stay	the	course,	and	finish	the	course,	you	will	need	to	fix	your
self-esteem.
Self-esteem	matters	because	you	need	the	confidence	to	act	and	really	push
yourself	in	your	race	to	make	more	money.	In	order	to	execute	your	plan	and
take	action	on	it,	you	must	have	clarity	on	this.	You	can’t	spend	your	time
thinking,	
Am	I	worthy?	Do	I	have	what	it	takes?	What	can	I	give	the	person	who
already	has	everything?	Do	my	partners	respect	me?	Can	I	bring	anything	to
their	table?	Am	I	successful	enough	to	talk	to	him?
Game	Facers	don’t	ask	these	kinds	of	questions.	The	kinds	of	questions	we
ask	ourselves	determine	how	healthy	our	self-esteem	is.	Asking	questions	that
make	you	doubt	yourself	undermines	your	self-esteem	and	sucks	the	energy	you
need	to	move	the	needle	of	your	net	worth.	Do	both	of	us	a	favor	and	drop	it
now.	You	do	need	to	honestly	evaluate	yourself	and	your	abilities—that’s	where
doubt	has	its	place.	But	while	Blamers	and	Dreamers	ask	self-defeating
questions,	Game	Facers	ask	questions	that	enable	them	to	get	ahead,	like,	“What
is	the	best	use	of	my	time	in	service	of	my	goals?”	or	“What	skills	should	I	be
developing	so	I	can	jump	ahead	in	my	career?”	In	order	to	
be	
worthy	of
achieving	your	dreams,	you	must	
believe
	that	you	are	worthy	of	achieving	your
dreams.	Training	yourself	to	have	high	self-esteem	will	make	all	the	difference
in	your	thought	and	action	process.
Blamers	and	Game	Facers	answer	the	same	questions	differently.	Let’s	take
some	examples	of	questions	you	might	ask	yourself	when	it	comes	to	business,
and	the	differences	between	how	you	might	have	answered	yourself	before	and
how	I	want	you	to	answer	yourself	now	to	get	rid	of	the	excuses:
Question	#1:	Is	now	the	time	for	me	to	ask	for	a	raise?
Blamer’s	answer:	
My	boss	hates	me.	She	never	gives	raises,	so	why	even
try?
Game	Facer’s	answer:	
I	work	hard	and	smart.	I	have	solved	problems
that	have	increased	revenue	and	value	to	my	company.	I	have	documented
all	the	value	I’ve	created	for	the	company	and	will	present	it	to	my	boss.	At
the	end,	I	will	ask	for	a	raise.	If	I	don’t	get	it	.	.	.	I	will	start	looking	for	a
company	that	will	reward	me	for	problem	solving	and	value	creation.
Question	#2:	Is	it	really	worth	the	effort	to	go	after	a	monster	client?
Blamer’s	answer:	
That	customer	is	too	big	for	us.	We	will	just	screw	it
up,	so	it’s	not	going	to	be	worth	it.
Game	Facer’s	answer:	
That	customer	would	be	a	complete	idiot	to	not
want	to	do	business	with	me	and	my	company,	and	I’m	going	to	find	a	way
to	prove	it	to	them.
Question	#3:	Can	I	handle	this	timeline?
Question	#3:	Can	I	handle	this	timeline?
Blamer’s	answer:	
No	way.	I	have	too	much	on	my	plate	that	I	already
don’t	get	paid	for,	so	I	can’t	add	anything	else	to	it.
Game	Facer’s	answer:
	I	trust	myself	and	my	team.	We	love	a	challenge.
We	will	accomplish	the	task,	because	that’s	what	Game	Facers	do.
Question	#4:	Should	we	really	spend	the	money	to	expand?
Blamer’s	answer:	
We	can’t	afford	to	expand.	Let’s	not	go	for	it	now.	We
should	wait	and	see	if	the	economy	turns	upward	in	the	future.
Game	Facer’s	answer:	
Nothing	will	stand	in	the	way	of	me	and	my
success.	Especially	not	money.
ACTION	STEPS:	GO	FROM	BLAMER	TO	GAME	FACER
So	I	need	to	get	you	out	of	the	blame	game	to	get	you	to	freedom.	Where	to
start?
Face	YOUR	money	situation.
	Tell	yourself	and	your	loved	ones	the
truth	about	your	money	situation.	Yes,	it’s	hard,	and	it	might	disappoint
them.	But	they	will	get	over	it	once	you	get	back	on	track,	and	you	won’t
get	back	on	track	until	you	get	real.
Skill	up	about	money.
	Start	slow	or	fast,	it	doesn’t	matter,	but	if	you
are	going	to	stop	complaining	about	money,	you	are	going	to	have	to
understand	it.	Simply	watch	CNBC	in	the	mornings.	Or	read	the	money
section	of	
USA	Today.
	These	two	options	are	great	for	people	looking	to
get	their	feet	wet.	Don’t	get	overwhelmed—money	is	not	complicated.	At
the	end	of	the	day,	financial	success	equals	assets	over	liabilities.	
You
want	to	own	more	than	you	owe.	It’s	really	that	simple,	and	if	you	can
learn	what	a	basic	balance	sheet	is,	you	will	be	ahead	of	most	people	you
meet.
Let’s	talk	about	money.
	Read	about	money.	Talk	about	money.	Ask
questions	about	money.	It’s	time	for	you	to	stop	being	afraid	to	learn
about	or	talk	about	this	stuff	openly	and	honestly	with	your	peers	and
those	you	admire.
Make	a	list	of	excuses.	
That’s	right—you	need	a	list	of	excuses.
Every	time	you	make	an	excuse	for	yourself	(“It’s	fine	that	I	lost	that	sale
because	I’m	having	a	decent	year	anyway”)	or	hear	someone	make	an
excuse	(“The	economy	is	in	the	toilet,	so	I	can’t	expect	to	make	more
money	this	year”),	write	it	down.	And	then	
never
	use	that	excuse	again—
not	to	yourself	or	anyone.	You’ll	catch	yourself	making	excuses	and
slowly	but	surely	get	yourself	out	of	the	Blamer	mind-set.
Insure	yourself.
	If	you	don’t	have	life	insurance,	today,	at	this	very
minute,	
put	this	book	down
	and	Google	
term	life	insurance
	in	your	local
area.	Set	an	appointment	with	an	agent	of	a	major	insurance	provider	and
buy	a	policy.	If	you	have	no	life	insurance,	don’t	get	caught	up	in	term	vs.
universal	vs.	whole,	just	right	now,
	today,
	buy	a	twenty-year	term	policy
for	a	minimum	of	$500,000.	If	you	already	have	insurance,	it	is	time	to
give	yourself	a	checkup.	Make	sure	you	have	the	maximum	amount	of
coverage	you	can	afford.	I	recommend	
twenty-year	term	life	because	if
you	really	put	part	2	of	this	book	to	work,	life	insurance	will	eventually
not	become	part	of	your	financial	well-being.	For	now,	if	you	don’t	have
a	multi-million-dollar	net	worth,	buy	as	much	twenty-year	term	life
insurance	as	you	can	afford.
Change	your	friends.
	Are	your	friends	Blamers,	Dreamers,	or	Game
Facers?	You	need	to	start	spending	less	time	with	the	Blamers	and	start
spending	more	time	around	the	Game	Facers.	The	Blamers	are	your
chronically	
broke	friends	who	are	constantly	complaining	about	how
things	never	work	out	for	them,	and	are	full	of	excuses.	It’s	fine	to	hang
out	with	Dreamers,	but	don’t	spend	too	much	time	with	them,	or	you’ll
get	stuck	dreaming	and	never	executing	on	your	dreams.	It’s	harder	to
spend	time	with	Game	Facers	if	they’re	not	already	on	your	team	because
they’re	busy	playing	the	game	and	have	less	time	to	spend	with	you,	but	if
you	can	catch	them	when	they	have	some	free	time,	or	offer	to	buy	them
lunch	or	just	a	coffee,	you’ll	learn	an	incredible	amount	and	get	better	at
playing	the	game.
Get	competitive.
	Find	the	right	people	or	companies	to	fuel	your
competitiveness	and	try	to	beat	one	of	them	every	day.	If	you	find
yourself	competing	with	a	Blamer,	you’ll	find	yourself	going	nowhere.
You	need	to	compete	with	people	who	are	far	above	your	level,	and	beat
them	at	their	game.	Never	compete	downward,	always	compete	upward.
Only	then	will	you	really	start	to	move	the	needle	of	your	net	worth.