CHAPTER	3
Lifestyle	by	Design
YOU	NEED	MONEY	FOR	MORE	THAN	JUST
EMERGENCIES	AND	RETIREMENT
You	need	more	money	for	one	simple	reason:	
freedom.
	Financial	freedom	gives
you	the	best	outcomes	and	version	of	your	life.	It	allows	you	to	breathe,	to	sleep
well	at	night,	to	stop	fighting	with	your	partner,	to	give	you	choice	and
flexibility.	Freedom	equals	choices.	The	choice	to	do	what	
you
	want	to	do.	But
as	we	all	know,	freedom	comes	at	a	cost.	The	cost	is	having	the	balls	to	
not
	do
what	the	Joneses	are	doing	and,	therefore,	eventually	being	able	to	do	what	you
really
	want	to	do.	As	my	friend	Grant	Cardone	(author	of	amazing	books	like
The	10X	Rule
)	says,	“Pay	the	price	today,	so	you	can	eventually	pay	whatever
price	you	want	in	the	future.”
You’ll	understand	how	to	shift	your	lifestyle	to	spend	
more	time
working	on	the	process	I	will	teach	you	in	this	book.	You’ll	be	able	to
visualize	the	life	you	really	want,	and	how	to	design	your	life	to	spend	your
time	achieving	that	life	with	the	most	valuable	resource	on	the	planet:	doing
what	you	were	meant	to	do.	You’ll	stop	doing	what	someone	else	has
designed	for	you	and	start	doing	what	you’ve	designed	for	yourself.
Put	simply,	you	cannot	do	cool	things	without	money.	You	can’t	take	your
kids	to	Disneyland.	You	can’t	buy	the	diamonds	for	your	twentieth	anniversary.
You	can’t	buy	any	of	the	things	or	experiences	you	truly	desire.	Take,	for
example,	giving	your	children	the	best	they	deserve.	Think	about	it.	What	if	your
child	has	a	talent	for	music	or	acting?	She	deserves	to	learn	from	the	best	and
take	a	shot	at	making	it	big.	You’d	like	to	support	your	kid	until	she	gets	her
break,	but	you	and	your	spouse	spent	way	too	much	time	trying	to	impress	your
family	and	friends	with	fancy	dinners,	expensive	gifts,	and	a	mortgage	payment
that	you	really	couldn’t	swing.	Who	really	pays	the	price?	Your	brilliant	kid
that	you	really	couldn’t	swing.	Who	really	pays	the	price?	Your	brilliant	kid
does,	because	you	frivolously	spent	your	money	and	shortchanged	her	dreams.
So,	your	child	ends	up	having	to	take	a	dead-end	job	instead	of	going	to
Juilliard.
Remember,	money	equals	freedom.	The	freedom	of	choice,	the	freedom
to	give,	and	the	freedom	to	help	you	and	everyone	around	you	reach	their
potential.
	Money	is	not	emotion.	It	is	not	who	you	are,	but	simply	a	spoke	in	the
wheel	of	your	life.	It	helps	you	live	the	life	you	want	or	it	keeps	you	from	living
the	life	you	want.	Your	job	is	to	design	that	life	and	then	make	sure	to	
generate
enough	tokens	to	feed	the	machine.	Some	people	have	much	smaller	designs.
Maybe	they	like	to	live	in	a	tiny	house	on	the	outskirts	of	town.	They	don’t	eat
out	or	take	fancy	vacations.	It’s	all	good,	as	long	as	that	life	is	the	life	they
designed	and	not	the	life	they	settled	for	because	they	chickened	out	and	didn’t
go	for	their	dreams.	As	long	as	they	didn’t	let	the	failure	of	their	first	business
keep	them	from	ever	starting	another.	As	long	as	getting	passed	up	for	the
promotion	didn’t	stop	them	from	trying	for	another.
IT’S	NOT	JUST	AFFECTING	YOUR	WALLET
Not	having	enough	money	affects	more	than	your	wallet:	it	could	affect	your
marriage,	too.
Think	about	this:	it’s	a	beautiful	Sunday	morning.
Today	is	going	to	be	a	great	day,
	you	say	to	yourself	as	you	wake	up.
You	want	your	wife	to	sleep	in	and	you	visualize	yourself	having	a	relaxing
morning	drinking	coffee	and	reading	the	Sunday	paper.	After	all,	you	are	now	an
empty	nester.	Your	children	are	grown	and	out	of	the	house,	and	the	financial
burden	of	college	is	now	behind	you.	Helping	your	children	get	through	college
with	limited	student	loans	was	important	to	you	and	very	costly,	but	you	are
confident	that	you	have	time	to	make	more	money	and	prepare	for	that
comfortable	retirement	you’ve	been	dreaming	of.
As	you	carefully	put	your	robe	on,	taking	caution	to	not	
wake	your	wife,	you
leave	the	bedroom	and	quietly	close	the	door	behind	you.	You	march	to	the	front
door	to	grab	the	Sunday	paper	that	is	always	there,	but	that	you	rarely	have	time
to	enjoy.	You	open	the	front	door,	but	the	paper	isn’t	there.	
Very	strange,
	you
think	to	yourself,	considering	that	your	paperboy	never	misses	a	delivery.	As
you	enter	the	kitchen	to	fire	up	the	Keurig,	you	notice	it	is	already	on.	Someone
has	already	made	herself	a	cup	of	coffee.	But	who?	The	children	are	out	of	the
house	and	your	wife	is	still	sleeping.	Who	could	it	be?	And	then	you	see	her,
sitting	at	your	kitchen	table,	reading	
YOUR
	Sunday	newspaper	and	drinking
YOUR
	coffee	.	.	.	
your	mother-in-law
.	She	is	in	her	robe	and	hair	curlers,	and	all
your	new	reality	comes	flying	back	to	you	.	.	.	
she	lives	with	you	now.
Why?	Because	neither	you	nor	she	saved	enough	money	to	prevent	this	from
happening.
Your	wife	brought	the	subject	up	so	smoothly	a	few	months	ago:
“Honey	.	.	.	you	know	Mom	is	getting	up	there	in	age,	and,	well,	she	hasn’t
handled	her	money	very	well.	I	know	we	have	helped	her	over	the	years,	but	.	.	.
I	think	we	should	seriously	consider	letting	her	move	in	with	us.”
You	reply	with,	“Honey,	your	mother	should	have	thought	of	that	when	she
was	younger	in	life.	Her	financial	problems	are	really	not	our	problems.”
Wrong	answer.
“Well,	what	option	does	she	have?”	your	wife	continues.	
“Mom	didn’t	save
her	money.	After	she	and	Dad	got	divorced,	they	sold	the	house,	and	she	has
rented	ever	since.	Now	that	she	has	gotten	older,	she	just	can’t	get	around	as
easily	anymore,	and	her	cash	is	gone.	She	is	living	on	Social	Security	of	around
$1,600	per	month.	She	can’t	afford	much	of	anything.	I	will	not	have	Mom	on
the	streets.	She	is	going	to	move	in	with	us.”
You	blurt	out	the	first	thing	that	comes	to	your	mind,	“We	could	pay	for	her
rent	at	the	garden	apartments	just	a	few	miles	from	us.	We	could	get	her	a	first-
floor	one-bedroom	with	a	patio.	She	would	feel	close	to	us	but	also	have	her
independence.	What	do	you	think,	honey?”
Your	wife	shakes	her	head.	“Honey,	we	can’t	afford	that	.	.	.	it’s	probably
$1,000	to	$1,500	per	month	and	we	don’t	have	it.”
She	is	right	.	.	.	you	don’t	have	it.	You	don’t	have	the	$1,500	per	month	to
eliminate	this	situation	from	your	life	altogether.	Had	you	done	something
different,	like	maybe	not	bought	that	Jacuzzi	(which	your	mother-in-law	will
now	take	over	completely),	or	maybe	put	away	more	cash	over	time,	or	maybe
actually	started	that	business	on	the	side,	or	proved	your	worth	to	get	a	raise
from	your	boss,	you	would	have	easily	had	this	extra	money.	But	you	didn’t,	and
time	marched	on	and	now	you	are	stuck.	And	so,	the	inevitable	happens:	you
give	in	to	make	your	wife	and	your	mother-in-law	happy.	Welcome	to	the	next
ten	to	twenty	years	of	your	life	.	.	.	with	your	mother-in-law	in	your	face
24/7/365.
You	could	have	stopped	this	and	stopped	the	fight	if	you	had	just	had	more
money.	It’s	things	like	this	that	can	rock	marriages	
(and	why	so	many	couples
fight	about	money).	Emotions	run	deep	and	you	might	even	get	divorced	over
something	like	this.	Wouldn’t	it	be	better	to	have	another	option?	If	you	had
more	money,	you’d	be	able	to	put	her	in	that	garden	apartment	down	the	street.
Problem	solved,	without	it	ever	having	disrupted	your	household,	your	marriage,
or	your	life.
Odds	are	that	your	parents	and	your	in-laws	don’t	have	enough	money
either.	In	most	cases,	you	will	be	called	upon	to	fix	not	only	
your
	financial
situation	but	that	of	your	parents	and	in-laws.	Think	about	this:	Most	of	our
parents	didn’t	do	a	good	job	of	saving	because	they	thought	Social	Security
would	save	them.	The	average	retiree	has	a	retirement	nest	egg	of	$10,000–
$20,000.	The	average	Social	Security	benefit	for	retirees	is	$16,100	per	year.
That’s	not	much	of	a	nest	egg	at	all,	and	the	burden	of	caring	for	these	retirees
will	fall	on	your	shoulders,	just	as	it	has	fallen	on	mine.	Both	my	mother	and
mother-in-law	have	virtually	
zero
	in	savings	and	live	almost	exclusively	on
Social	Security.	My	mother	has	monthly	benefits	of	$1,300	per	month	and	my
mother-in-law	has	monthly	benefits	of	$1,800.	It’s	hardly	the	retirement	either	of
them	planned	for	(more	like	didn’t	plan	for),	and	my	wife	and	I	are	left	holding
the	bag.
There’s	a	very	good	chance	that	you	will	be	called	upon	to	help	your	aging
parents	in	some	way.	Most	people	entering	retirement	have	almost	no	savings.
Wouldn’t	you	like	to	be	able	to	help	out	on	your	terms?	If	it’s	not	in-laws	or
cancer,	I	promise	you—it’s	going	to	be	something.	There	will	be	lots	of	times
when	you	wish	you	had	more	money.	In	the	end,	the	result	will	always	
be	the
same:	You	either	have	the	money	to	fix	the	problem	or	you	don’t.	If	you	do	have
the	money,	the	problem	will	usually	go	away	or	the	severity	of	the	problem	will
be	minimized.	Money	does	fix	a	lot	of	problems.	If	you	don’t,	your	life	can
change	in	an	instant,	forever.	I	challenge	you	to	see	your	future	before	it
happens.	Plan	a	life	that	lives	up	to	your	potential,	and	for	goodness’	sake,	stack
and	rack	enough	cash	to	keep	you	in	the	driver’s	seat	of	your	life.
HOW	TO	BUILD	A	LIFESTYLE	BY	DESIGN
The	goal	of	living	a	“Lifestyle	by	Design”	is	to	
thrive,
	not	just	
survive.
	Sure,	you
could	spend	the	rest	of	your	life	in	a	cramped	rented	studio	apartment	eating	rice
and	beans	and	ramen,	but	that	is	not	your	story.	You	are	better	than	that.	You	are
a	Game	Facer.	You	picked	up	this	book	for	a	reason.	You	want	more,	and	by
reading	this	far,	you	have	taken	a	tremendous	step	in	the	right	direction.	Let’s
keep	going!
This	Lifestyle	by	Design	process	helps	to	determine	your	path.	It’s	the
systematic	process	of	understanding	where	you	are,	where	you	want	to	go,	and
writing	it	all	down,	so	you’ll	want	to	take	some	paper	and	a	pen	in	hand	before
we	get	into	it.	Visualizing	what	you	want	so	you	can	get	to	work	achieving	it	is
the	difference	between	those	who	get	it	and	those	who	don’t.
There	are	five	steps	to	the	Lifestyle	by	Design	process:	Core	Values,
Visualize,	the	Doorman	Principle,	Goal	Setting,	and	Action.	Really	take	your
time	on	each	step	and	don’t	rush	it.	It’s	important	that	you	see	every	step	of	this
process	very	clearly.
1.	Core	Values
Core	Values	are	very	personal	to	the	individual,	but	they	are	critical.	Whether
you	prioritize	religious	beliefs,	commitment	to	charity,	focus	on	family,	the
legacy	you	want	to	leave	behind,	or	just	your	determination	to	hustle	your	ass
off,	you	need	to	take	the	time	to	understand	yourself	and	decide	what	matters
most	to	you.	I	suggest	you	create	no	more	than	four	to	six	Core	Values.	Here	are
my	Core	Values:
1.	
Practice	daily	rhythms	to	keep	my	family—both	immediate	and	extended
—together,	strong,	and	thriving	at	all	times.
2.	
Support	my	wife	and	my	three	boys	in	reaching	their	full	God-given
potential	on	a	daily	basis.
3.	
Force	myself	to	reach	my	full	God-given	potential.	Earn	and	keep	an
abundance	of	cash	that	provides	my	family	with	the	freedom	of	stability
and	choice.
4.	
Work	to	improve	my	health	on	a	daily	basis.
5.	
Fight	for	the	underdog	and	show	people	from	all	walks	of	life	that	they
can
	have	a	lifestyle	that	they	want	and	deserve	if	they	are	willing	to
visualize,	set	goals,	and	work	hard	to	get	it.
Now	it’s	your	turn.	Write	down	what	you	stand	for	and	what	you’re	not
willing	to	bend	on.	Core	Values	should	be	simple,	shared	with	others,	and
unwavering.	Here	are	some	questions	to	help	you	create	those	four	to	six	Core
Values	that	the	rest	of	your	life	will	be	lived	by:
What	matters	to	you	most	in	this	life?
What	are	you	willing	to	do	for	your	success?
What	are	you	
not
	willing	to	do	for	your	success?
What	other	factors	outside	of	making	more	money	are	important	to	you?
(Family,	health,	travel,	religion,	etc.?)
Who	are	the	most	important	people	in	your	life?	What	do	you	want	to
provide	for	them?
What	are	your	personal,	nonnegotiable	values?
By	writing	down	the	answers	to	these	questions,	you	will	start	to	see
what	is	most	important	to	you	in	this	world	and	what	will	stand	tall	amid	all
the	obstacles	or	little	things	that	might	get	in	the	way.	
Take	those	answers
and	turn	them	into	four	to	six	statements—these	are	now	your	Core	Values.
Write	them	out	clearly,	and	put	them	in	a	place	of	prominence	in	your	home	or
work	so	you	can	remind	yourself	of	them	every	day.
Your	Core	Values	now	become	the	foundation	of	your	life.	Once	you	have
these	in	place,	you	have	started	the	process	of	building	your	Lifestyle	by	Design
—something	to	live	by.	Now	you	can	start	to	get	a	strong	grip	on	how	much
money	you	will	need	to	pull	this	lifestyle	off.
2.	Visualize
Now	that	you’ve	identified	your	Core	Values,	take	time	to	think.	Close	your
eyes	and	dream	about	what	you	really	want.	Don’t	worry	about	if	it’s	realistic	or
how	you’re	going	to	get	there.	Just	
see	and	feel	it	and	take	time	to	think	about	it.
The	important	thing	here	is	to	
be	as	specific	and	detailed	as	possible
.	Don’t	just
say,	“I	want	to	travel.”	What	are	the	places	you	want	to	visit?	How	often	do	you
want	to	travel?	Would	you	enjoy	traveling	for	work,	or	do	you	only	want	to	do	it
for	pleasure?
I	have	specifically	listed	the	following	areas	of	life	in	the	order	that	I	believe
are	the	most	important	for	you	to	think	about	and	visualize.	But	remember,	this
is	
your
	life.	You	are	not	designing	my	life,	so	make	sure	you	use	these	as	a	guide
and	outline	anything	else	that	might	be	important	to	you.	Think	about	what	you
want	when	it	comes	to:
Passion:
	What	makes	you	come	alive?	What	do	you	need	to	have
this/do	this?
Family:
	What	do	you	value	and	what’s	important?	What	type	of	spouse
do	you	want?	Should	they	be	a	Type	A	personality	or	should	they	be	more
relaxed?	Do	you	want	children	or	not?	Do	you	want	to	be	the	breadwinner
or	should	that	be	your	spouse?	Don’t	go	easy	on	yourself	here	.	.	.	be
specific.
Friends
:
	Who	are	the	kinds	of	people	you	want	to	surround	yourself
with?	Are	they	funny?	Wealthy?	Healthy?	How	do	they	make	you	feel?
What’s	important	to	you	in	a	friendship?
Health:
	Do	you	want	to	lose	weight?	Put	on	muscle?	Quit	smoking?
Lifestyle:
	Do	you	want	to	travel	the	world?	Sit	on	the	board	of	nonprofit
foundations?	Do	you	want	to	work	for	six	months	a	year	and	surf	in	Costa
Rica	for	the	other	six	months?
Travel:
	Is	this	important	to	you?	Where	do	you	want	to	visit?	At	what
kind	of	level?
Education:
	To	what	level	do	you	want	to	provide	and/or	pay	for
education	for	yourself	or	your	children	or	grandchildren?
Income:
	The	granddaddy	of	them	all.	What	are	your	income	goals?	Run
out	the	financial	needs	of	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.	How	much	will	your
travel	cost?	Your	living?	Your	spending?	Go	into	tremendous	detail	in
this	exercise	so	that	you	have	a	very	clear	idea	of	what	your	desired	life	is
going	to	cost.
3.	The	Doorman	Principle
Once	you	have	your	Core	Values	and	have	visualized	your	ideal	life,	you	need	to
prepare	to	make	it	a	reality.	But	first,	you’ll	need	the	Doorman	Principle,	as
taught	to	me	by	my	friend	Rick	Sapio.	Some	people	can	get	carried	away	with
their	dreams,	and	in	the	pursuit	of	success	abandon	all	the	things	that	matter	to
them	or	make	them	happy.	How	can	you	ensure	that	you	don’t	lose	sight	of	your
Core	Values?
The	Doorman	is	the	protector	of	your	Core	Values.	He	lets	in	the	people,
activities,	ideas,	and	relationships	that	meet	your	Core	Values,	and	shuts	them
out	if	they	don’t.	Everything	that	comes	across	your	desk	must	be	vetted	by	the
Doorman	against	your	Core	Values	before	it	even	gets	to	“you.”	For	example,	in
the	early	days	of	my	business,	I	would	take	any	opportunity	to	meet	people	and
make	new	contacts.	Now	I’m	more	careful	about	how	I	spend	my	time:	If	I	don’t
know	someone	or	don’t	see	a	good	reason	to	get	to	know	them,	I	don’t	give	them
my	time.	And	I	no	
longer	take	lunch	appointments.	Ever.	It’s	become	a	wasted
activity	for	me	based	on	my	Core	Value	of	work	efficiency.	If	you	want	to	see
me,	call	my	office.	We	will	schedule	a	quick	phone	call	to	discuss	opportunities.
I	don’t	need	to	waste	two	hours	over	lunch	to	find	out	that	we	are	not	a	fit.	I	will
gladly	have	a	ten-minute	phone	call,	but	no	more	wasting	time.	Drop	that
Doorman	in	front	of	all	activities	and	make	sure	he	lets	in	only	the	ones	aligned
with	your	Core	Values.
One	of	my	Core	Values	is	“Practice	daily	rhythms	to	keep	my	family
together,	strong,	and	thriving	at	all	times.”	One	of	the	ways	I	practice	this	is	to
have	family	dinners	three	times	a	week.	The	Doorman	Principle	makes	sure
nothing	gets	in	the	way	of	this.	My	Doorman	won’t	allow	phone	calls,	meetings,
or	visitors	to	get	in	the	way	of	how	I	practice	my	Core	Values.	In	my	house,	we
all	make	it	a	priority	to	be	at	the	table	for	our	family	dinners.
Much	like	a	real	doorman	protects	the	residents	of	the	luxury	high-rise
he	guards,	the	Doorman	Principle	ensures	that	all	your	activities	first	pass
the	test	of	your	Core	Values.
4.	Goal	Setting
Once	you’ve	defined	your	Core	Values,	visualized	your	ideal	life,	and	put	your
Doorman	Principle	into	place,	you’ll	use	all	three	to	set	periodic	goals.	While
your	ultimate	goal	is	to	live	the	ideal	life	you’ve	visualized,	this	is	where	you
break	down	that	grand	vision	into	concrete	yearly,	monthly,	weekly,	and	daily
goals	that	will	help	you	get	there.	Most	people	set	goals	way	too	small.	They	set
goals	that	seem	achievable	and	I	set	ones	that	seem	
unachievable.	You	need	to
push	yourself	to	achieve	more	than	you	think	you’re	capable	of	on	a	daily	basis.
When	you	set	big	goals,	it	makes	your	small	problems	go	away.	You	stop
worrying	about	the	little	things	that	get	in	the	way	because	your	mission	is
so	big.
	We	waste	too	much	time	doing	low-value	activities	and	worrying	about
insignificant	problems	when	we	should	be	focused	on	high-value	activities,	and
conquering	huge	challenges.
I	used	to	scoff	at	the	idea	of	goal	setting,	until	I	realized	its	power	and	made
it	a	daily	habit.	If	you	want	big-time	success	in	business,	you	must	set	big-time
goals	and	revisit	them	every	day.	Your	goals	must	be	big	and	specific.	Your
goals	must	address	things	like	how	many	employees	you	want,	how	many
people	you	can	help,	and	what	your	annual	revenue	is	going	to	be.	And	yes,	you
need	to	have	goals	of	greater	profits	and	a	larger	net	worth.	The	important	thing
is	to	write	down	your	goals	daily.	Once	again,	as	my	friend	Grant	Cardone	says:
“If	I	set	and	review	my	goals	twice	a	day	for	an	entire	year,	that’s	730	times	per
“If	I	set	and	review	my	goals	twice	a	day	for	an	entire	year,	that’s	730	times	per
year.	If	you	set	your	goals	once	a	year	on	January	1,	who	do	you	think	has	a
better	chance	at	reaching	them?”
Need	I	say	more?	Write	your	goals	down	daily,	period,	end	of	story.
5.	Action
Once	you	have	set	your	goals,	you	must	take	action	to	achieve	them.	Just	do	it,
right?	Action	is	the	final	step	that	will	ensure	you	can	have	your	Lifestyle	by
Design.	
Push	hard	in	the	direction	of	your	dreams.	Push	really	hard,	much
harder	than	you	
have	been,	and	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	will	happen	much
faster	than	you	think.
Decide	today	what	you	want	tomorrow,	and	take	decisive	and	insane
amounts	of	action	to	achieve	it.	Write	your	goals	down	every	day	as	a	reminder
to	you	to	not	waste	time	on	the	small	stuff.	Go	
bigger
	from	the	beginning.
ACTION	STEPS:	CREATE	YOUR	LIFESTYLE	BY	DESIGN
1.	
Determine	your	Core	Values.
Write	down	your	four	to	six	Core	Values.	Remember,	these	are
personal	to	you	and	your	life,	not	what	someone	else	has	told	you	or
expects	of	you.
Set	up	daily	or	weekly	routines	to	help	you	strengthen	your	Core
Values.
2.	
Take	time	out	of	your	day	to	visualize	and	set	goals.
Once	you’ve	identified	your	Core	Values,	you	need	to	visualize	your
ideal	life	and	set	goals	toward	achieving	it.	This	should	be	a	daily
practice,	so	you	can	keep	your	focus	on	attaining	your	dreams	and
make	progress	toward	them	on	a	daily	basis.	Spend	ten	minutes	a
day	on	this,	either	first	thing	in	the	morning	or	right	before	you	go	to
bed.
Get	a	goal-setting	booklet.	I	love	the	“10X	Calendar”	by	Grant
Cardone.	It	costs	around	$20	and	can	be	purchased	at
www.grantcardone.com.	It	has	a	place	in	it	to	write	down	
your	goals
in	the	morning	and	in	the	afternoon,	which	can	help	you	to	make
your	goal	setting	a	daily	practice.
3.	
Install	your	Doorman.
Create	your	Doorman.	The	Doorman	is	the	filter	through	which	you
will	run	all	activities	to	make	sure	they	connect	with	your	Core
Values.	Develop	the	habit	of	stopping	yourself	before	you	say	yes	to
anything	and	make	sure	that	the	proposed	activity	agrees	with	your
Core	Values.
4.	
Write	out	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
What	do	the	next	one,	three,	five,	and	fifty	years	look	like?	Put	the
details	down	on	paper.
Set	up	time	to	dream	about	them	every	
week.