CHAPTER	4
STEP	#1:	The	Litmus	Test
TO	DRAW	YOUR	MAP	TO	SUCCESS,	FIRST	UNDERSTAND
WHERE	YOU	ARE
Blamers	don’t	care	about	their	future.	They	have	given	up	on	the	fact	that	they
are	in	control	and	will	use	any	excuse	in	the	book	to	justify	why	they	don’t	have
the	life	they	deserve.
Dreamers	are	still	waiting	for	their	perfect	life	to	magically	appear	to	them
one	day.	They	love	to	dream,	but	can’t	pull	the	trigger	on	any	of	it.	They	live	a
life	of	“someday”	and	that	someday	never	comes.
But	Game	Facers	build	their	lives.	They	take	complete	control	of	the
process,	build	the	road	map	based	on	their	desires,	and	make	it	happen.
Now	that	you’ve	figured	out	what	you	want	for	your	Lifestyle	by	Design,
you	need	to	chart	your	course	to	achieve	it—but	in	
order	to	do	that,	you	first
have	to	answer	a	few	questions	to	understand	where	you	are	right	now.	I	call	it
the	Litmus	Test:
1.	
Are	you	living	a	life	that	is	by	your	design	and	not	someone	else’s?
2.	
What	stage	of	wealth	are	you	in?	I	refer	to	three	stages:	Broke,
Accumulation,	and	Rich.
3.	
Are	you	in	the	right	“platform”	that	connects	to	your	goals,	dreams,
skills,	and	superpower?
4.	
What	is	your	risk	tolerance?
5.	
Do	you	need	to	take	a	step	backward	to	take	two	steps	forward?
6.	
Should	you	be	an	employee	or	an	employer?	(If	you	choose	employer,	I
will	offer	you	some	words	of	warning.)
In	this	chapter,	we’ll	address	each	of	these	questions	one	at	a	time.
In	this	chapter,	we’ll	address	each	of	these	questions	one	at	a	time.
The	good	news	is	that	these	questions	are	the	key	to	figuring	out	your	future
and	making	more	money.	The	bad	news	is,	this	exercise	isn’t	easy	and	pain-free.
It	takes	grit	and	guts.	If	I	had	had	the	guts	to	do	the	Litmus	Test	sooner,	I
wouldn’t	be	in	the	business	I’ve	been	in	for	over	twenty	years.	For	all	these
years,	deep	down,	I	knew	I	shouldn’t	be	in	the	transportation	equipment
financing	industry,	but	that	I	should	be	a	coach,	a	teacher,	and	a	speaker.
Although	I	knew	it,	I	didn’t	take	the	path	out	of	fear.	Don’t	get	me	wrong.
Through	grit,	commitment	to	my	success,	the	support	of	my	coworkers,	and
massive	action	over	a	long	time,	
my	team	and	I	have	made	a	tremendous	living
and	career	for	ourselves.	I’m	damn	proud	of	it.	But,	deep	down,	if	I	had	been
honest	with	myself	and	done	what	I	really	wanted	all	those	years	ago,	I	would
have	gone	to	work	for	Tony	Robbins.	My	first	time	speaking	to	an	audience,	I
knew	that	was	where	I	was	meant	to	be	and	what	I	was	meant	to	do.	I’m	a	late
bloomer.	It’s	why	I	am	
now
	committed	to	writing	this	book	and	spreading	the
YOU	NEED	MORE	MONEY	message	so	you	can	learn	from	my	mistakes	(and
so	I	get	to	do	what	I’m	really	meant	to	do—help	you!).
The	greatest	gift	the	Litmus	Test	gives	you	is	the	permission	to	do	what
you	are	meant	to	do.	That’s	not	only	great	news	for	your	happiness,	but	it’s
also	how	you	make	more	money:	when	the	work	doesn’t	feel	like	work—
when	you	are	at	true	and	total	peace.
The	other	thing	the	Litmus	Test	does	is	help	you	to	determine	your	risk
tolerance.	We’ll	talk	about	how	risk	is	solved	through	research	and	analysis,	but
also	how	to	use	your	risk	tolerance	to	determine	whether	or	not	you	should	go
into	business	for	yourself.	Don’t	worry—you	can	still	make	more	money	without
becoming	a	full-fledged	entrepreneur.	Sounds	like	a	plan	(more	like	a	road	map),
right?	Good.	Let’s	roll!
HOW	BIG	DO	YOU	NEED	TO	GO?
Now	that	you’ve	have	created	your	Core	Values	(the	building	blocks	of	your
Lifestyle	by	Design),	visualized	what	you	want	and	how	you	want	to	live,	we
need	to	determine	how	much	money	it	
will	take	you	to	live	this	way.	We’ll	need
to	calculate	the	difference	between	the	life	you	want	(and	maybe	you	think
you’re	living)	and	the	wages	you	are	bringing	in.
It’s	time	to	get	truthful	about	your	monthly	expenses	and	determine	the	cost
of	living	your	current	lifestyle.	Remember,	Game	Facers	are	not	afraid	of	the
truth.	Use	my	categories	as	a	guide.	Break	down	what	each	of	these	expenses
truth.	Use	my	categories	as	a	guide.	Break	down	what	each	of	these	expenses
cost	you	each	month.	These	are	common	categories	that	affect	most	of	us.	If	you
have	more,	add	them	in.	If	you	don’t	have	some	of	these	expenses,	just	put	$0	in
that	category.	These	are	the	categories	I	use	for	my	actual	budget.
Your	monthly	income	is:	$	__________	(this	represents	your	take-home
pay,	after	taxes)
Your	monthly	expenses	are:
Mortgage/rent	(including	property	taxes):	__________
Home/renters	insurance:	__________
Auto:
Car	payment(s):	__________
Car	insurance:	__________
Car	fuel:	__________
Birthday	gifts	for	others:
Clothes:	__________
College	savings:	__________
Dog	grooming:	__________
Food:
Groceries	at	home:	__________
Dining	out:	__________
Health	insurance:	__________
Housekeeper:	__________
Life	insurance:	__________
Lawn	care:	__________
Music	lessons:	__________
Pool	cleaner:	__________
Retirement	savings:	__________
Schooling:
Tuition:	__________
School	tutor:	__________
School	activities:	__________
School	supplies:	__________
Select	sports:
Registration	fees:	__________
Travel	for	select	sports:	__________
Toy	payments	(boats,	ATV,	etc.):
Payment	for	toys:	__________
Fuel	for	toys:	__________
Insurance	for	toys:	__________
Utilities:
Gas:	__________
Electric:	__________
Water:	__________
Vacations:	__________
MY	TOTAL	MONTHLY	EXPENSES	ARE:
	__________
You	have	now	determined	how	much	money	you	need	to	live	your	current
lifestyle.	Take	this	amount	and	multiply	it	by	twelve.	You	now	have	the	annual
income	you	need	to	produce,	after	taxes,	to	live	your	current	lifestyle.	This
simple	exercise	is	so	rarely	done	by	most	people.	
We	think	we	have	an	idea	of
what	our	lifestyle	costs,	but	when	we	actually	put	it	down	on	paper,	we	often
realize	we	need	more	money	.	.	.	a	lot	more	money.	
I’m	proud	of	you.	You	just
did	more	to	understand	your	financial	needs	than	most	people.	You	moved
closer	to	Game	Facer	status.
ARE	YOU	IN	THE	RIGHT	PLATFORM?
Now	that	we	know	your	monthly	expenses,	we’re	going	to	need	to	evaluate	if
you’re	in	the	right	industry,	or	what	some	call	career	path,	but	what	I	call	your
“platform.”	Your	platform	is	the	industry	you	have	chosen	or	will	choose.	Are
you	in	the	right	platform	to	achieve	your	Lifestyle	by	Design?	Because	if	you	are
not,	you	might	need	to	take	a	step	back	before	you	step	forward.	You	might	be	in
the	right	place	with	your	skills,	but	working	in	the	wrong	place,	in	the	wrong
platform.
Your	skills	are	only	maximized	to	earn	more	money	if	you’re	using	them	in
the	right	platform.	It’s	important	to	figure	out:	
am	I	in	the	right	platform?
	You
may	be	the	world’s	greatest	sandwich	maker	at	Subway	and	dream	of	having	a
Lambo	in	the	driveway,	but	unfortunately	you’re	in	the	wrong	platform.	You
may	be	in	the	car	business	and	be	the	top	salesperson	at	your	dealership	every
month,	and	selling	twenty	cars	a	month	can	make	you	a	
nice	living.	But	you
know	every	month	your	compensation	plan	is	subject	to	change,	that	the
management	is	going	to	cut	you	back	if	you	make	too	much.	The	platform	you
choose	has	to	give	you	the	ability	to	achieve	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
The	first	thing	you	want	to	do	is	take	a	look	around	your	industry	and	ask
yourself:
Are	there	people	in	my	platform	who	are	currently	achieving	what	I
want,	and	making	the	kind	of	money	I	need	to	live	my	Lifestyle	by
Design?
In	my	personal	example,	I	knew	there	was	money	in	the	equipment
financing	industry.	I	could	see	that	people	were	making	good	money	in	the
industry.	Besides,	anytime	banks	are	heavily	involved	in	a	platform,	you	can	rest
assured	there’s	money	in	it.	I	knew	that	the	large	publicly	traded	banks	had	the
money	but	they	didn’t	have	the	gritty	hustle	I	did;	therefore,	I	could	out-hustle
them	and	do	well	for	myself—and	I	did.	However,	over	twenty	years	later,	the
equipment	financing	industry	has	not	changed	at	all,	and	many	of	the	people
who	were	starting	to	get	lazy	when	I	started	are	now	on	the	door	of	retirement
without	a	new	infusion	of	young	talent.	The	same	is	true	in	many	industries.	If
you	think	the	big	money	only	lives	in	start-up	social	media	platforms	or	in	high
tech,	you	are	wrong.	In	fact,	it	might	surprise	you	to	learn	that	in	the	next
decade,	many	of	the	old,	once-boring	industries	will	make	a	comeback	and
create	tons	of	amazing	wealth	opportunities	for	Game	Facers.	These	are
industries	such	as:
Banking
Insurance
Real	estate
Transportation/Logistics
Manufacturing
These	industries	are	filled	with	gray-haired	management	that	are	soon	to	be
put	out	to	pasture.	They	are	working	to	retire,	and	many	of	them	are	simply
trying	to	not	get	fired	before	they	have	barely	enough	to	live	on	in	retirement.
This	creates	an	amazing	opportunity	for	Game	Facers	of	any	age	to	come	in,
take	over	their	accounts,	grow	them,	and	make	a	lot	of	money.	Add	to	this	that
many	of	these	industries	are	behind	the	times	in	terms	of	marketing,	storytelling,
social	media,	advertising,	and	company	culture,	and	you	see	that	they	are	ripe	for
social	media,	advertising,	and	company	culture,	and	you	see	that	they	are	ripe	for
takeover	by	hustlers	with	skills—by	the	Game	Facers.
Before	choosing	your	platform,	make	sure	someone	inside	it	is	achieving
what	you	want	to	achieve.	The	masses	inside	the	platform	don’t	have	to	meet	all
your	criteria,	but	someone	on	the	inside	should.	Do	you	have	the	ability	through
your	network	or	your	pure	gritty	hustle	to	hook	up	with	the	people	who	are
currently	winning	in	the	platform	you	want	to	go	into?	As	we	discussed,	having
successful	people	around	you	in	your	platform	is	
vital
.	If	you’re	not	following	a
proven	producer,	you	might	be	betting	on	a	false	promise.	The	reason	that	so
many	people	are	terrified	of	picking	a	platform	is	because	they	really	haven’t
seen	
anyone	win	in	it.	If	you	can’t	see	anyone	winning	in	your	current	platform,
it’s	time	to	get	busy	finding	successful	people	and	following	them	to	their
platform.
Only	enter	or	stay	in	a	platform	if	you	can	follow	someone	else’s	lead.	Mark
Zuckerberg,	the	founder	of	Facebook,	might	disagree	with	that	idea,	but	he’s	1	in
100	million.	If	you	think	you’re	that	1	in	100	million,	go	ahead,	knock	yourself
out.	Start	something	from	scratch.	Create	something	that	has	never	existed
before.	But	most	of	us	have	a	better	shot	at	success	by	following	the	odds.	That’s
what	I	did.	I	went	where	the	money	was	and	carved	out	my	own	piece	of	the
American	pie.	I	suggest	you	do	the	same—follow	the	money	and	don’t	buy	into
a	lie	fed	to	you	by	some	underachieving	manager.
Another	thing	to	consider	when	evaluating	your	platform:	does	the	platform
have	longevity	or	is	it	a	flash	in	the	pan?	If	you	don’t	believe	in	the	importance
of	timing,	just	ask	an	Uber	driver.	The	original	Uber	drivers	who	started	with	the
company	early	made	a	lot	of	money.	But	within	a	very	short	period	of	time,
competition	and	saturation	flooded	the	space,	and	now	most	Uber	drivers	will
make	less	money	this	year	than	they	did	last	year.	It	started	off	as	a	great
platform	to	make	money,	but	no	longer	has	that	same	advantage	for	the	masses.
It	is	a	great	fit	for	a	side	hustle,	but	it	is	no	longer	the	road	to	riches	that	the
original	drivers	thought	it	would	be.
Meanwhile,	here	are	just	a	few	platforms	that	aren’t	going	away	anytime
soon:
Writing,	storytelling,	and	video	editing.	These	are	only	getting	stronger	in
light	of	the	impact	of	social	media.
Medicine/Health	care
Housing	for	all	age	groups
Insurance
Transportation
Banking/Finance
And	for	the	Game	Facer	who	wants	to	be	at	the	cutting	edge:
Cyber	security
Artificial	intelligence
Virtual	reality
Automation	of	any	kind
These	industries	are	going	to	change	the	way	our	world	looks	at	everything.
I	suggest	you	look	very	carefully	at	them	and	see	if	your	skill	set	and	Lifestyle
by	Design	might	be	suited	for	them.
Maybe	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	matches	with	one	of	these	industries	and
you	are	in	the	right	place!	Your	current	platform	might	not	be	on	this	list,	and
that’s	okay,	too.	Just	do	an	honest	evaluation	of	whether	your	platform’s	time	is
over	or	if	it	has	a	tremendous	upside.
Ask	yourself:	“Am	I	in	the	correct	platform	to	achieve	my	Lifestyle	by
Design?”
WHAT	IS	YOUR	RISK/REWARD	TOLERANCE?
Being	afraid	of	risk	will	cost	you	money	over	time.	But	fear	of	making	money	is
not	real.	It’s	just	a	trick	that	your	brain	plays	on	you.	Your	interpretation	of	risk
is	100	percent	connected	to	the	amount	of	research	and	analysis	you	do.
Let	me	give	you	an	example:	When	a	friend	of	mine	introduced	me	to	a
private	equity	investment	opportunity,	I	was	scared	of	the	risk	involved.	I	didn’t
know	anything	about	private	equity,	and	therefore	it	seemed	very	risky	to	me.
The	private	equity	company	specialized	in	investing	in	early	and	small	health
care	technology	companies,	but	the	idea	of	investing	in	these	kinds	of	companies
was	just	so	foreign	to	me.	I	didn’t	understand	the	business	and	because	of	that	I
was	nervous.	My	friend	had	already	done	a	few	investments	with	this	group	and
all	had	paid	him	back	handsomely.	In	order	to	evaluate	the	risk	of	this
investment	I	had	to	do	more	research	and	analysis.	I	have	trained	myself	to
conduct	massive	research	and	analysis	before	I	pull	the	trigger	on	any
conduct	massive	research	and	analysis	before	I	pull	the	trigger	on	any
investment.	This	unyielding	process	forces	my	brain	to	look	at	risk	and	reward
differently.	After	the	research	and	analysis	are	complete,	if	the	data	and	my	gut
feeling	of	the	deal	still	produce	tremendous	risk,	I	pass.
So,	I	didn’t	just	take	my	friend’s	word	for	the	success	in	the	private	equity
deal;	I	researched	it.	I	called	my	family	friend,	another	private	equity	guy,	and
ran	it	by	him.	I	ran	it	by	my	CPA	and	my	attorney.	I	Googled	article	after	article
about	private	equity.	I	researched	and	analyzed	the	heck	out	of	it	
before
	I
invested	in	it.	I	made	sure	to	have	a	thorough	understanding	of	the	entire	deal.
The	pros	and	the	cons.	The	potential	payout	and	the	potential	loss.	All	that
research	and	analysis	provided	me	with	clarity.	That	knowledge	removed	my
doubt	and	fear	of	the	risk,	and	made	the	decision	to	pull	the	trigger	and	invest
easy.
The	reason	risk	makes	you	nervous	is	that	you	are	unsure.	The	reason
you	are	unsure	is	that	you	have	not	done	enough	research	to	determine
what	the	correct	decision	is.
	The	most	financially	secure	people	I	know	are
willing	to	continue	to	make	moves	in	what	most	other	people	would	deem	highly
risky	ventures.	But	for	them,	there	is	little	or	no	uncertainty.	Why?	Because	they
are	playing	to	their	strengths.	They	have	done	extensive	research,	gathered	the
facts,	factored	the	potential	losses	into	their	calculation,	and	maybe	hedged	their
bets,	and	so	the	decision	becomes	crystal	clear.	Why	do	successful	real	estate
developers	continue	to	buy	more	property,	and	continue	to	build	up	their
portfolio	by	purchasing	more	property?	Because	they	have	done	their
homework,	tested	the	market,	and	come	to	a	conclusion	about	how	to	manage
the	situation.	The	fear	of	risk	lives	with	those	people	who	have	taken	neither	the
time	nor	the	effort	to	understand	the	data—every	inch	of	it—and	therefore	are
still	uncertain.
We	all	perceive	risk	differently.	If	you	were	single	and	living	in	a	studio
apartment	with	total	bills	of	$2,000	per	month,	your	risk	tolerance	might	be
different	than	if	you	were	married	with	a	big	mortgage	and	two	kids	in	college.
But	in	either	case,	doing	research	and	analysis	is	the	key	to	understanding	risk
and	enabling	yourself	to	make	big	moves	with	confidence.
I	will	never	forget	a	meeting	I	had	with	a	billionaire	in	Dallas	last	year.	He
wanted	to	explore	the	possibility	of	investing	in	my	business.	But	after	about	an
hour,	it	became	clear	that	he	was	not	interested	in	investing	in	CFF.	He	wanted
to	finance	subprime	credit,	and	my	company	only	finances	prime	credit
borrowers.	Because	we	only	finance	business	owners	with	good	credit,	our
yields	are	smaller	than	subprime,	but	he	was	looking	for	bigger	yields.	After	I
explained	that	I	didn’t	like	subprime	financing	because	of	the	increased	risk
attached	to	it,	he	said	the	magic	words	that	I	will	never	forget:
“Matt,	you	are	a	smart	guy,	with	a	good	business,	but	never	forget
something	.	.	.	my	definition	of	risk	and	your	definition	of	risk	are	two	very
different	things.”
His	statement	stopped	me	in	my	tracks.	He	was	right.	His	superior
understanding	of	the	industry	actually	made	subprime	financing	
attractive
	to
him.	He	had	run	a	publicly	traded	subprime	auto	finance	company	and	retired	at
the	age	of	forty-four	when	he	cashed	in	his	stock	for	just	shy	of	$1	billion.	His
view	of	that	type	of	business,	through	his	experience	and	his	research	and
analysis,	allowed	him	to	view	the	subprime	financing	business	in	some	ways	as
less	
risky	than	the	prime	financing	business.	In	short,	his	view	of	risk	was	so
different	from	mine,	he	used	it	to	become	a	billionaire—and	I	didn’t.
That	meeting	opened	my	eyes.	I	took	his	advice	and	started	deep	research
and	analysis	into	the	subprime	equipment	financing	space.	After	a	few	months	of
reading,	asking	questions,	and	reviewing	actual	data,	I	formed	a	new	company
called	Fresh	
Start	Equipment	Financing,	Inc.	Fresh	Start,	owned	100	percent	by
me,	now	offers	subprime	financing	for	businesses	wanting	to	buy	transportation
equipment.	You	didn’t	think	I	would	just	take	a	billionaire’s	suggestion	and	not
do	my	research	and	analysis,	did	you?	Of	course	not.	His	words	forced	me	to
work	harder	and	to	do	more	research	and	analysis	into	my	business	and	into	the
subprime	financing	industry.	So	now	I’m	in	both	the	prime	financing	and	the
subprime	financing	of	the	transportation	equipment	business	and	I	think	Fresh
Start,	my	subprime	business,	alone	will	do	$50	million	in	a	few	years.
Force	yourself	to	do	the	research	and	analysis	phase	until	you	have	so	much
data	that	your	perception	of	risk	is	fully	tested.	After	that	phase	is	done,	you
might	come	up	with	the	same	conclusion	regarding	risk.	But	in	some	cases,	you
might	change	your	understanding	of	the	risk,	and	then	pull	the	trigger	on	a	new
venture	or	investment	or	career.
You	should	ask	yourself	before	pulling	the	trigger:	If	I	am	wrong	about	this,
what’s	the	worst	that	can	happen?	Am	I	financially	in	a	position	to	handle	that
outcome?	Understanding	the	consequences	is	part	of	your	research	and	analysis
and	will	help	to	determine	your	choice.	But	when	assessing	the	risk,	you	have	to
factor	in	not	just	what	you	could	stand	to	lose	by	taking	a	chance,	but	also	what
you	might	miss	out	on	if	you	don’t.	We	all	have	that	uncle	who	wishes	that	he
bought	that	corner	lot	twenty	years	ago.	He	says	every	time	he	drives	by	it,	“If	I
had	only	bought	that	lot	.	.	.	think	of	what	it	would	be	worth	today!”	I	have	been
that	uncle	way	too	many	times	and	my	financial	wealth	has	
suffered	from	it.	I
knew	that	all	the	kids	were	crazy	about	Under	Armour	clothes	when	the	stock
was	$23	a	share.	It	has	since	gone	as	high	as	$120.	But	I	didn’t	act	on	it—I	was
uncertain.	Would	Nike	come	in	and	kill	Under	Armour?	Would	it	be	a	fad?	Did	I
ask	anyone?	Nope.	Did	I	call	anyone?	Nope.	Did	I	ask	any	of	my	friends	in
Baltimore	if	they	had	any	opinions	or	information	about	the	Baltimore-based
company?	Nope.	I	just	watched	the	stock	go	to	$120	and	then	I	said,	“Well,	I
missed	that	one	.	.	.	again.”
How	do	you	determine	your	own	risk	tolerance?	Ask	yourself:	Are	you
willing	or	interested	in	doing	the	research?	Once	you’ve	done	that	research	and
analysis,	are	you	still	feeling	uncertain	or	concerned?	Then	you’re	probably	not
willing	to	tolerate	the	risk.	Or	are	you	feeling	confident,	because	you	know
exactly	what	to	do?	Bingo.	By	continuing	to	do	research,	continuing	to	dig,
you’ll	eventually	determine	whether	or	not	you	can	tolerate	the	risk.
You	must	understand	whether	you	are	the	captain	or	the	passenger.	Not
everyone	needs	to	be	the	lead	developer	on	a	new	apartment	complex.
Sometimes,	you	can	simply	be	a	passive	investor.	Just	put	up	your	money	and	let
it	ride	on	the	backs	of	others.	Just	make	sure	you	do	your	research	and	analysis
here,	too.	You’ll	want	to	be	sure	that	you’re	working	with	credible	experts	who
are	trustworthy	and	have	solid	credentials	and	a	winning	track	record.	That’s
how	I	like	to	play	the	real	estate	game.	I	leave	it	to	the	experts	to	do	their
development	thing,	their	zoning	thing,	their	construction	cycle	thing,	their
marketing	and	rental	
thing,	and	I	just	put	up	my	money	and	collect	a	check	each
month.	It’s	good	enough	for	me	to	be	the	passenger	on	that	deal	because	I’m	the
captain	in	my	business.	I	don’t	need	to	be	the	captain	of	all	of	my	investments
and	neither	do	you.	But	in	either	case,	you	must	do	the	research	and	analysis
required	to	provide	an	answer	that	connects	to	your	risk	tolerance.
TAKE	A	STEP	BACK	TO	TAKE	TWO	STEPS	FORWARD
The	legendary	speaker	Jim	Rohn	once	said,	“You	can’t	see	the	picture	when
you’re	inside	the	frame.”
Sometimes,	you	might	be	so	wrapped	up	in	your	current	money	situation
that	you	can’t	see	the	whole	picture.	You	might	need	to	take	a	step	back	to	see
all	the	possibilities	for	your	life.	Taking	one	step	back	in	order	to	take	two	steps
forward	is	something	not	many	people	would	do	in	order	to	be	able	to	lead	the
life	they	want	to	live.	But	as	we’ve	established,	that	is	not	you.	You	want	to	live
life	they	want	to	live.	But	as	we’ve	established,	that	is	not	you.	You	want	to	live
your	Lifestyle	by	Design	and	you	are	willing	to	do	anything	to	get	it,	right?
Well,	you	might	need	to	make	a	move	backward	so	you	can	leap	into	a	bigger,
more	profitable	future.
Take	for	example	the	bartender	who	makes	$300	a	night	at	a	hot	spot	in
New	York	City.	That’s	good	money	to	them,	and	could	be	hard	to	give	up,	and
that	is	why	you	see	so	many	people	who	start	in	the	restaurant	or	strip	club
business	and	can’t	leave	it.	They	get	used	to	the	short-term	money	and	can’t
make	the	sacrifice	of	
taking	a	step	back	to	make	giant	leaps	forward	in	their
future.	That	bartender	might	really	want	to	be	a	dentist	or	doctor	or	plastic
surgeon,	but	because	she’s	making	such	good	money	as	a	bartender,	she’s	not
willing	to	take	a	step	back	and	take	a	pay	cut	to	go	back	to	school	and	pursue	her
dreams.
When	you’re	sitting	on	a	little	money,	you	might	be	more	willing	to	take
that	step	back	because	you	can	supplement	your	lower	income	with	your
savings.	Once	again,	it	allows	you	the	freedom	to	have	a	choice.	It	also	raises
your	risk	tolerance—it’s	a	less	risky	move	if	you	have	more	money	to	fall	back
on.	In	the	next	chapter,	I’ll	tell	you	about	setting	up	a	“reserve	account,”	which
you’ll	find	to	be	crucial	in	giving	you	the	ability	to	take	a	step	back	to	return	to
school,	or	to	start	a	business,	or	to	just	explore	your	options	and	find	a	better
path	forward.
I’ve	seen	this	firsthand	at	my	own	company.	Three	years	ago,	Sean
interviewed	with	us	for	a	sales	position.	He	had	been	working	as	a	finance
manager	at	various	car	dealerships	in	the	Dallas–Fort	Worth	area	and	his	income
was	decent	at	$120,000	annually.	Sean	had	earned	this	income	for	a	number	of
years	and	was	considered	excellent	in	his	field.	Then	Sean	and	his	wife	had	a
little	girl.	When	you	go	from	single	to	married,	or	from	married	to	parents,	it
creates	an	overnight	wake-up	call.	Sean	knew	that	if	he	stayed	in	the	car
business,	he	would	miss	most	Saturday	soccer	games,	not	to	mention	school
plays	and	field	trips.	In	the	car	business,	you	often	work	“bell	to	bell,”	as	they
say,	and	as	anyone	in	that	industry	will	tell	you,	your	family	life	is	for	the	birds.
Sean	couldn’t	do	that	anymore.	His	Core	Values	had	changed	and	they	
now
included	being	able	to	spend	time	with	his	family,	not	just	support	them
financially.	And	to	protect	this	Core	Value,	Sean	applied	the	Doorman	Principle
to	make	sure	nothing	got	in	the	way	of	that.
Sean	found	us	online	because	of	how	much	content	we	put	out	on	social
media	outlets	and	proceeded	to	do	a	ton	of	research	about	us.	He	asked	friends	if
they	knew	about	us,	and	this	led	him	to	speak	to	both	current	and	former
employees.	When	he	interviewed	with	me,	his	mind	was	made	up	that	he	was
going	to	work	at	CFF	and	watch	his	baby	girl	grow	up.	His	research	and	analysis
removed	any	fear	of	risk	and	he	knew	CFF	was	the	right	platform.	There	was
only	one	problem:	At	that	time,	our	compensation	plan	for	a	new	salesperson
from	outside	our	industry	was	$500	per	week,	plus	commission.	That	was	going
to	be	a	
major
	short-term	pay	cut	for	Sean	and	his	wife	and	his	new	baby.	But	he
was	willing	to	take	a	step	backward	to	take	two	steps	forward	because	it	meant
he	could	spend	the	time	he	wanted	to	with	his	family,	as	well	as	eventually	make
enough	money	to	continue	to	live	his	Lifestyle	by	Design,	the	one	that	would
lead	him	back	to	that	$120K	a	year	(and	then	some).	He	knew	there	would	be
long-term	gains	if	he	took	a	short-term	loss.	In	Sean’s	case,	it	paid	off
handsomely	for	him.	In	fact,	he	didn’t	take	two	steps	forward—he	took	more
like	three	or	four.	In	his	first	year,	after	bustin’	his	butt,	working	plenty	of	late
nights	and	weekends	to	skill	up,	Sean	made	every	milestone	event	planned	for
his	little	baby	girl	
and
	had	replaced	his	income	from	his	previous	career.	In	year
two,	Sean	had	doubled	his	income	and	never	
missed	an	event	with	his	family.	In
year	three,	he	tripled	it,	and	in	year	four,	he	looks	to	hit	a	mid-six-figure	annual
income.	The	money	part	of	this	story	is	awesome,	and	if	you	are	willing	to	step
back	to	determine	a	better	course	for	yourself	and	put	in	the	same	amount	of
work	as	Sean	in	the	right	platform,	it	can	happen	for	you,	too.	But	the	greatest
part	of	this	story	for	me	is	not	the	money—	it’s	that	his	daughter	knows	her
daddy.	Money	can’t	buy	that	relationship.
You	might	be	making	very	good	money	working	for	another	company	and
are	not	willing	to	take	a	50	percent	pay	cut	to	go	into	business	for	yourself	or
make	a	career	change.	You	might	have	to	move	from	the	“cool”	department	in
your	company	to	take	over	the	lead	in	the	“train	wreck”	department.	But	that	is
how	you	get	your	chance,	your	break.	Sometimes	you	have	to	eat	a	little	crow,	as
they	say,	to	be	able	to	leap	past	everyone	in	the	future.
FORK	IN	THE	ROAD:	EMPLOYEE	OR	EMPLOYER?
Once	you’ve	found	a	way	to	take	a	step	back,	you	now	have	to	make	some
decisions	about	how	you	plan	to	move	forward.	Everything	we’ve	talked	about
until	now	applies	to	you	regardless	of	whether	you’re	employed	by	a	business	or
own	(or	are	thinking	about	owning)	your	own	business.	We	are	now	going	to
explore	if	you	should	work	for	someone	else	or	if	you	should	work	for	yourself.
But	how	do	you	
know
	if	you	should	be	an	employee	or	an	employer?	Thank	you
for	asking.
We’ve	arrived	at	the	“employee	or	employer”	fork	in	the	road	to	determine
which	path	you’re	going	to	take	to	make	more	money—and	it’s	time	to	pick	one.
Your	choices	are	simple:
A.
	Stay	at	your	job	and	find	a	way	to	get	paid	more.
B.
	Stay	at	your	job	and	make	additional	money	on	the	side.
C.
	Become	your	own	boss.
Whichever	path	you’re	meant	to	follow,	I	will	show	you	how	to	make	more
money	in	the	following	chapters.	But	it’s	time	to	make	a	decision.	Let’s	do	some
critical,	essential	research	and	analysis:	Can	you	get	the	money	you	need
through	the	job	you	currently	have	OR	do	you	need	some	sort	of	side	or	extra
income?	Do	you	need	to	create	what	I	call	your	own	Personal	ATM?	You	must
do	the	research	and	analysis,	and	the	path	will	become	clear.	Here’s	how	you
figure	it	out:
1.	
Does	your	current	industry	offer	you	opportunities	to	earn	what	you
need?
2.	
Assess	value	points:	what	can	you	bring	to	the	organization	(based	on
your	skill	set)?
3.	
Is	anyone	within	your	industry	currently	earning	what	you	need?	You
need	real	examples	here	.	.	.	not	promises.
4.	
Are	you	currently	bringing	exceptional—not	middle-of-the-road—value
to	your	organization?
5.	
Do	you	have	the	money	to	make	a	change	if	you	can’t	get	what	you
need?
6.	
If	you	don’t	have	any	money	to	leave	and	go	into	business	for	yourself,
do	you	have	a	network	of	people	with	money	to	get	an	idea	off	the
ground?
7.	
What	options	do	you	have?	Money	always	follows	the	deal.	If	you	have	a
good	deal	in	business—an	idea,	investment,	whatever—you	will	find	the
money	for	it.
8.	
Do	you	have	the	skills	built	up	yet?
9.	
Have	you	done	the	research	and	analysis	required	to	make	a	change?	(A
mechanic	might	want	to	become	a	pharma	rep,	but	have	they	done	the
research,	analysis,	and	skilling	up	to	make	the	change?)
10.	
Are	you	really	a	business	owner	or	should	you	just	skill	up,	bring
massive	value	to	the	organization,	and	rise	up	the	ranks?	Trust	me—the
number	two	through	ten	employees	at	Facebook	are	doing	just	fine.
Sometimes	it’s	better	to	be	the	vice	president	of	a	large	organization
instead	of	the	CEO	of	a	poor	small	business.
Once	you	have	the	answers	to	these	questions,	it	should	be	clear	which	way
you	should	go.	But	here	are	the	questions	you	should	be	asking	yourself:
Can	you	make	the	money	you	need	in	a	regular	job	if	you	deliver
more	value?
If	your	regular	job	won’t	cut	it,	do	you	have	a	business	idea,	and	have
you	done	your	research	to	get	it	off	the	ground?
Everyone	is	now	in	control	of	their	destiny.	The	employee	now	has	more
power	over	the	employer	than	ever	before.	It	wasn’t	always	like	that.	The
employee	is	not	beholden	to	the	employer	anymore.	Employees	these	days	have
the	ability	to	leave	because	there	are	a	lot	more	choices,	and	one	of	those	choices
is	to	do	your	own	gig.	If	you	don’t	want	to	work	for	anyone	but	yourself,	you
can	make	it	happen.
According	to	a	December	2016	article	in	
Forbes
,	the	richest	star	on
YouTube	is	Pewdiepie.	He	has	more	subscribers	to	his	YouTube	channel	than
anyone	else.	He	is	ranked	number	one	with	over	54	million	subscribers	as	of	this
writing,	and	his	subscriber	count	continues	to	grow	at	over	10,000	per	day.	He
has	over	15	billion	views	and	consistently	gets	5	million	views	per	day.
Pewdiepie	is	in	charge	of	it	all.	He	has	power	with	YouTube.	He	has	power	with
his	audience.	He	has	power	with	brands	and	therefore	with	clients	who	want
access	to	him.	He	has	power	over	his	money	(he	earned	well	over	$15	million	in
2016),	and	most	important,	Felix	Kjellberg,	aka	Pewdiepie,	has	power	over	his
own	life	because	he	is	leading	it	by	his	design.
You	don’t	have	to	work	for	a	manufacturing	company	until	you	die.	You
have	a	choice.	Or	if	you	like	having	the	benefits,	stability,	and	salary	that	come
with	being	an	employee,	that’s	great,	too.	But	you	don’t	have	to	wait	to	be
handed	opportunities	
anymore—you	can	make	them.	And	employees	that	don’t
understand	that	concept	are	the	unhappy	ones.
CAUTION:	Being	Your	Own	Boss	Is	Overrated
The	trap	that	so	many	people	fall	into	is	the	one	where	they	believe	that	being	in
business	for	themselves	is	a	greater	opportunity	than	being	an	employee.	I’m
here	to	say	that	in	the	vast	majority	of	the	situations,	that	is	simply	not	true.	Fifty
percent	of	all	businesses	fail	in	the	first	year.	Ninety	percent	of	all	businesses	fail
in	the	first	five	years.	That	means	that	it’s	often	a	bad	bet	to	go	into	business	for
yourself.
I	know	firsthand	the	difficulties	of	running	a	company.	At	my	company	in
2015	and	2016,	we	“torched”	it.	What	do	I	mean	by	torching	it?	We	decided	to
completely	overhaul	the	business	and	reconnect	to	our	company	culture,	our
mission	statement,	and	our	Core	Values,	and	we	rebuilt	our	management	team.
During	this	torching	process	we	said	good-bye	to	a	number	of	employees.	They
simply	didn’t	like	the	new	company	culture	that	I	was	determined	to	implement.
They	didn’t	like	that	we	hired	a	new	vice	president	of	sales	and	a	new	vice
president	of	operations	and	a	new	vice	president	of	finance	and	that	they	had	to
report	directly	to	them.	And	they	absolutely	hated	the	fact	that	I	put	in	place	an
employment	agreement	that	made	it	very	clear	that	although	they	could	go	into
business	for	themselves	and	even	compete	against	us	in	the	marketplace,	they
could	not	take	our	clients,	dealers,	or	vendors	with	them.
When	I	launched	the	employment	contract	to	the	group,	I	gave	everyone
plenty	of	time	to	review	it	with	their	family,	friends,	and	attorneys.	But	one	day
before	the	signing	deadline,	an	employee	who	had	been	with	me	for	twelve
years,	earned	$567,000	in	personal	annual	income	at	the	time,	and	had
consistently	been	one	of	my	top	five	salespeople	came	into	my	office	and	said,
“You	know	that	I’m	not	going	to	sign	that	employment	agreement.”	I	said,
“That’s	going	to	be	a	problem.”
He	went	on	to	tell	me	that	he’d	been	with	me	for	twelve	years	and	that	we
could	work	out	some	sort	of	an	arrangement	in	which	he	didn’t	have	to	sign	it,
but	could	still	keep	his	job.	I	told	him	that	there	would	be	no	side	deals	and	he
had	until	noon	the	following	day	to	sign	the	agreement.	The	following	morning,
he	came	into	my	office	and	once	again	said	that	he	wasn’t	going	to	sign	the
agreement,	and	this	time	also	said	that	he	was	going	to	go	out	on	his	own	and
start	his	own	equipment	finance	company.	I	wished	him	the	best	and	handed	him
start	his	own	equipment	finance	company.	I	wished	him	the	best	and	handed	him
a	box.	He	packed	his	desk,	and	just	like	that,	after	twelve	years,	he	left	his
almost	$570,000-a-year	job	to	go	into	business	for	himself.	By	the	end	of	our
torch,	three	additional	competing	equipment	finance	companies	were	created	by
former	employees	of	my	company.
It	was	the	worst	decision	he	could	have	possibly	made.	The	idea	that	he
would	replace	the	$567,000	personal	income	as	a	one-man	band,	without	an	IT
department,	a	marketing	department,	a	finance	department,	an	operations
department,	or	a	meaningful	brand	in	the	marketplace,	was	ludicrous.	He’s	now
working	out	of	his	home	office,	scouring	the	marketplace	for	low-level	leads
with	financing	options	that	pale	in	comparison	to	the	financing	options	and
support	that	he	had	when	he	was	employed	with	us.
I’m	not	angry	or	bitter	about	it.	I	didn’t	sue	him,	and	I	didn’t	go	after	him;	in
fact,	if	there’s	any	way	that	I	can	actually	help	him	be	successful,	I	will.	But
best-case	scenario?	He’ll	probably	make	50	percent	of	the	income	that	he	would
have	working	for	me,	and	he	will	have	to	do	100	percent	of	all	the	support
necessary	to	be	successful.	He	will	have	to	be	the	marketing	department,	the	IT
department,	the	operations	department,	and	the	finance	department.	It’s	a	perfect
example	of	why	most	people	will	make	more	money	being	an	exceptional
employee	rather	than	being	a	one-person	employer.
So	if	you’re	leaving	a	steady	job	to	go	into	business	for	yourself,	your	first
question	has	to	be:	
how	can	I	replace	my	income	working	for	myself	instead	of
working	for	someone	else?
You	simply	have	to	do	the	math	and	some	research	and	analysis:
How	many	deals	will	you	have	to	do?
How	much	revenue	will	you	have	to	generate?
What	will	be	your	cost	of	goods	sold?
What	will	be	the	cost	of	your	payroll	expenses?
What	about	your	marketing	expenses?
What	will	be	the	cost	of	the	capital	equipment?	Debt	service?
Can	you	get	the	funding?
Can	you	be	competitive	in	the	marketplace	versus	working	for	someone
else?
How	long	will	it	be	before	you	can	pay	yourself	a	salary?
Once	you	do	the	math,	your	decision	will	become	very	clear	to	you.	Does
the	bottom-line	number	of	being	in	business	for	yourself	match	the	number
the	bottom-line	number	of	being	in	business	for	yourself	match	the	number
you	would	have	made	as	an	employee?
Notice	that	I	haven’t	even	talked	about	health	benefits,	or	401(k)	programs,
or	employer-matching	programs,	or	company	cars,	or	travel	to	unique	places,	or
any	of	those	things	that	most	employers	cover	that	will	now	fall	onto	your
shoulders.	So,	do	yourself	a	favor	before	you	walk	out	of	your	current	job:
Before	you	let	yourself	go	down	the	rabbit	hole	of	how	much	you	hate	working
for	someone	else,	or	how	much	you	hate	your	boss,	or	how	much	freedom	you
think	you’ll	gain	by	working	for	yourself	.	.	.	do	the	math.	Will	going	into
business	for	yourself	replace	the	personal	income	you	make	working	for
someone	else?
Still	don’t	believe	me?	Let	me	lay	out	a	couple	of	examples	for	you	.	.	.
In	my	twenty-two	years	of	business,	I	have	lost	many	salespeople	who
wanted	to	leave	my	company	and	start	their	own	financing	business.	But	none
have	duplicated	the	success	they	had	while	employed	by	my	company.	Why?
Because	they	fell	into	the	trap	that	so	many	others	fall	into:	They	thought	their
success	was	based	on	them.	In	reality,	as	an	employee,	you	must	base	your
success	on	a	lot	of	factors.	When	your	sole	responsibility	is	to	sell	
a	product	or
provide	a	service,	you	can	be	hugely	successful	by	focusing	on	that	one	thing.
But	when	you	go	out	on	your	own,	you	are	now	in	charge	of	accounting,
marketing,	shipping,	human	resources,	and	contracting—you	are	no	longer	just
selling.	Therefore,	your	time	is	now	pulled	in	many	directions,	you	can’t	focus
on	just	selling,	and	your	sales	drop.	I	have	seen	it	so	many	times.	The	number
one	salesperson	thinks	he	can	do	it	better	than	the	company	he	works	for,	so	he
leaves	and	starts	his	own	business,	only	to	fall	flat	on	his	face.	In	order	to	win	at
the	game	of	business,	you	must	be	good—no,	
great
—at	all	aspects	of	business.
Consider	for	example	a	barista	at	Starbucks	who	constantly	dreams	about
what	her	own	coffee	shop	would	look	like,	and	how	different	she	would	make	it
from	Starbucks.	How	the	organic	coffee	that	she’d	serve	in	French	presses
would	be	sourced	only	from	nonprofit	coffee	bean	growers	in	Costa	Rica	and
how	many	customers	she’d	attract.	She	gets	caught	up	in	that	dream,	instead	of
the	reality	of	the	$10,000	monthly	rent	for	the	corner	storefront,	or	simply	the
fact	that	people	like	the	consistency	and	branding	of	Starbucks.	That	brand	has
been	created	through	hundreds	of	millions	of	dollars’	worth	of	marketing	and
advertising	and	thirty	years	of	corporate	growth.	So,	just	because	you’re	a	great
barista	doesn’t	mean	you	can	be	a	competitor	to	Starbucks.
Why	is	it	so	much	harder	to	start	a	small	business	than	to	work	for	someone
else?	Most	people	think	that	clients	choose	to	do	business	with	the	salesperson
that	they	work	with,	and	that’s	simply	not	true.	You	may	convince	some	clients
to	leave	with	
you	because	of	that	relationship,	but	at	the	end	of	the	day	clients
want	to	do	business	with	the	best	overall	solution	for	
them,	
not	with
	you.
Think	about	it.	When	you	purchase	something	on	Amazon,	you’re	not	doing
business	with	Jeff	Bezos,	Amazon’s	founder	and	CEO.	You	don’t	care	that	he’s
the	richest	man	in	the	world,	or	the	fact	that	he	wears	a	blue	shirt	to	work	every
day.	You	want	to	know	when	Amazon	is	going	to	get	your	purchase	to	you	and
if	you	got	it	at	the	best	possible	price.	When	you	buy	something	at	Walmart,	you
don’t	care	about	Sam	Walton.	You	don’t	care	that	he	drove	a	beat-up	pickup
truck	forever	or	even	care	why	he	founded	Walmart.	You	shop	at	Walmart
because	it’s	dirt	cheap.
Now,	maybe	you	don’t	have	to	get	into	a	capital-intensive	business.	Maybe
you’re	in	a	“solopreneur”	field	as	a	Web	designer,	a	videographer,	or	some	sort
of	consultant;	but,	again,	can	you	play	to	your	superpower	and	still	deliver	the
same	overall	solution	to	your	customer?	If	you	can	do	that,	and	if	the	math
checks	out,	you	should	go	into	business	for	yourself.	I	repeat:	if	you	have	done
the	research	and	analysis,	and	you	like	the	risk	and	the	results,	you	should	go
into	business	for	yourself.
ACTION	STEPS:	TAKE	THE	LITMUS	TEST
Calculate	your	expenses.
	You	need	to	get	real	about	where	you	are
and	how	far	you	need	to	go.	Figure	out	exactly	how	much	you	need	to
live	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
Decide	if	you’re	in	the	right	platform.
	Who	are	the	highest	earners
in	the	industry?	Are	there	many	high	earners	in	the	industry,	or	just	a
handful?	Do	you	have	the	right	skills	to	advance	in	the	industry?
Find	some	rich	friends.
	You’ve	got	to	make	sure	to	surround	yourself
with	people	who	have	already	gotten	to	where	you	want	to	go,	so	you	can
learn	from	them.	Ask	them	about	platforms	that	they	think	are	good	for
you	to	consider.
Your	mission	is	to	research
	
everything
	from	now	on.
	If	you’re
making	a	switch	or	a	big	investment,	have	you	done	all	the	research
possible	to	ensure	that	your	risk	is	as	small	as	possible?	What	other
questions	can	you	ask	that	you	haven’t	already	asked?	Do	you	have	a
buffer	of	money	to	protect	you	in	a	worst-case	outcome?	By	asking
questions	and	doing	research,	you	can	always	zero	in	on	your	risk
tolerance	in	every	situation.
Employee	or	employer?
	There	are	pros	and	cons	to	both	sides.
Understand	the	risks	involved	in	leaving	a	steady	job	to	become	a	stable
entrepreneur.	You	may	be	good	at	your	current	job,	but	that	doesn’t
necessarily	translate	into	being	good	at	running	a	
business.