CHAPTER	5
Step	#2:	Get	out	of	Broke	and	into
Accumulation	Mode
WEALTH	ACCUMULATION:	WHICH	PHASE	ARE	YOU	IN?
In	my	view,	there	are	only	three	zones	of	wealth	that	most	people	reach:	Broke,
Accumulation,	or	Rich.	I	will	briefly	discuss	a	fourth	zone	called	Wealthy,	but
won’t	spend	too	much	time	on	it—that’s	for	a	different	book.
First,	we	have	to	define	where	you	are.	Which	of	these	categories	do	you
currently	fall	into?
Broke:	
You	don’t	have	enough	money	to	pay	the	bills.	You	have	to	go	to
work	whether	you	want	to	or	not	to	cover	your	bills.	In	real-life	terms,	you
probably	couldn’t	go	more	than	a	few	weeks	without	a	paycheck	before
your	world	would	shut	down.
Accumulation:
	You	have	some	money	saved	up.	You	can	take	the
pressure	of	making	ends	meet	each	week	out	of	the	equation.	You	are	not
broke	anymore,	but	you	are	far	from	rich.	But	you	are	working	the	program
and	if	you	stick	with	it,	you	are	well	on	your	way	to	Rich.
Rich:
	You	no	longer	have	to	go	to	work	to	collect	a	check	and	live	the	life
you	want.	Only	when	you	get	to	Rich	can	you	fully	realize	your	vision	of	a
Lifestyle	by	Design.
When	my	friend	Grant	Cardone	recently	interviewed	me	for	his	show	
Power
Players,
	I	laid	out	my	framework	for	the	three	stages	of	wealth.	When	I’d
explained	the	stages	of	Broke,	Accumulation,	and	Rich,	Grant	said,	“You	missed
one.	You	missed	Wealthy.”
Wealthy:
	Unshakeable	generational	wealth,	like	that	of	the	Carnegies,
Rockefellers,	and	Vanderbilts.
To	Cardone,	Wealthy	is	indestructible	wealth.	He	wanted	to	skip	over	Rich
altogether	to	go	straight	from	Accumulation	to	Wealthy.	Warren	Buffett	money,
Bill	Gates	money,	Rockefeller	money.	Wealthy	is	having	the	kind	of	money	that
even	if	Wall	Street	melted	or	we	were	hit	by	war	or	natural	disaster,	your	legacy
would	never	be	destroyed.
I	can’t	talk	to	you	about	Wealthy	because	I’m	not	there	myself,	and	this
book	may	not	be	for	people	looking	to	get	there.	I	
know	only	a	few	people	who
would	meet	the	criteria	of	Wealthy,	but	to	hear	many	of	them	talk	about	how
they	operate,	it’s	as	if	they	are	still	in	Accumulation.	They	want	more,	and	can
never	let	go	of	their	Game	Facer	mind-set.	Warren	Buffett,	for	example,	still
makes	incredibly	lucrative	deals.	Meanwhile,	the	people	I	know	who	think	they
have	made	it	are	the	ones	who	have	not	made	it,	and	maybe	never	will.	The
richest	people	I	know	want	more.	They	want	more	money.	Some	want	more
money	just	for	their	scoreboard	and	others	want	it	to	help	their	charities.	I
believe	it	is	because	they	aren’t	done	building	their	Lifestyle	by	Design.	They
have	the	freedom	to	stop	whenever	they	want,	but	choose	not	to.
It	is	insanely	hard	to	get	to	Wealthy,	and	you	and	I	might	not	ever	get
there,	but	nothing	should	stop	you	from	getting	to	Rich.
	By	my	own
definition,	I’m	Rich.	I	am	able	spend	time	with	my	children	and	travel	with	my
wife	whenever	I	want.	I	have	enough	monthly	income	to	be	able	to	decide	how
much	I	want	to	work,	and	what	I	want	to	work	on.	Despite	that,	I	keep	myself	in
“Accumulation	Mode.”	It	keeps	me	hungry	for	more.	I’m	not	done.	I	still	go	to
work	every	day.	I	still	bust	my	ass.	I	work	hard	on	growing	my	company,
writing,	speaking,	coaching,	and	I	enjoy	all	of	it.	Once	you	realize	the	power	of
Accumulation	Mode,	it	makes	you	dream	bigger	and	shoot	for	more	ambitious
goals.
That’s	why	Rich	is	a	tough	step	to	get	into,	because	you	have	to	set	the
standards	for	yourself.	Most	people	who	read	this	book	will	be	in	either	the
Broke	or	the	Accumulation	category,	and	as	I’ve	said	earlier,	jumping	from
Broke	to	Accumulation	is	
relatively	simple.	It’s	much	harder	to	transition	from
Accumulation	to	Rich.
When	you	create	the	standards	for	yourself	of	what	Rich	is,	you	must	stick
to	those	standards.	Don’t	let	anyone	else	tell	you	to	lower	them.	If	the	needle
moves,	it	should	only	go	higher.	Your	target	net	worth	should	never	go	down—
only	up.	For	Game	Facers,	this	is	the	fuel	that	drives	us.	The	competition	of
moving	up	the	financial	food	chain	is	the	game	we	play	daily.
GET	OUT	OF	BROKE
Yes,	being	busted	broke	happens	far	more	than	we	think.	Sixty-nine	percent	of
Americans	have	less	than	$1,000	in	their	savings	accounts	and	35	percent	have
zero.
But	don’t	take	comfort	if	you’re	doing	better	than	that,	because	the	way	I	see
it,	you’re	still	broke	if	you	have	very	little	freedom	(if	any),	and	you’re	enslaved
to	your	job	because	you	need	it	to	pay	the	bills	each	week	or	month.	I	will	go	so
far	as	to	say	that	if	you	don’t	have	a	minimum	of	$50,000	liquid	cash	saved	up
that	you,	too,	are	busted	broke.	The	average	small	business	owner	in	America
today	makes	less	than	a	family	of	four.	The	average	family	of	four	makes
$51,000	a	year.	Remember,	this	is	a	book	about	money.	Most	of	us	would
consider	that	broke.	It	makes	no	difference	if	you	are	self-employed	or	work	for
someone	else—either	way,	you	could	be	in	my	Broke	zone.
But	don’t	fret,	because	getting	out	of	Broke	is	truly	the	easiest	transition
between	the	three	phases	of	wealth.	It’s	literally	the	
easiest	financial	situation	to
change	because	you	don’t	have	to	go	that	far	up	the	food	chain	to	get	out	of	it.
There	is	another	important	factor	about	understanding	how	to	get	out	of
Broke:	Most	people	who	are	broke	actually	do	survive.	They	actually	have	a	roof
over	their	heads,	they	have	heat,	and	they	have	running	water.	They	aren’t	in
despair;	therefore,	if	they	can	survive	on	Broke	and	if	we	can	figure	out	how	to
get	them	20–50	percent	more	income,	they	will	quickly	move	out	of	Broke	and
into	Accumulation.
Here	are	my	six	(quick!)	steps	to	get	you	out	of	Broke	and	into
Accumulation:
1.	
Admit	that	you	are	broke.
	If	you	don’t	have	$50,000	saved	in	the
bank	(after	subtracting	any	debt	you	owe),	you	have	to	admit	that	you	are
broke.	You	need	to	look	in	the	mirror	and	admit	that	you	really	don’t
have	any	money,	and	because	of	this,	you	don’t	have	any	freedom.
Maybe	you	lost	your	money,	maybe	you	spent	it,	maybe	your	ex-
whatever	took	it,	or	maybe	you	just	haven’t	put	yourself	in	a	position	to
earn	more.	Whatever	your	reason,	it’s	time	to	get	past	it	because	you
bought	this	book	and	you	want	to	change.	Be	honest	with	yourself—cut
out	the	BS	you	have	been	telling	yourself	and	others.	Until	you	have	the
amount	of	money	I	suggest	above	as	liquid	cash	in	the	bank,	you	are	in
Broke.
2.	
Cut	spending	completely.
	I’m	not	talking	about	your	survival	needs.
Please	continue	to	pay	your	rent/mortgage,	utility	bills,	and	household
bills,	such	as	transportation,	clothes,	
and	basic	groceries.	But	the	gourmet
cookies	you	think	you	deserve,	or	the	new	pair	of	shoes—bye-bye.
Notice	that	I	didn’t	say	to	cut	your	spending	by	a	certain	percentage.	I
said	cut	your	spending	
completely
.	Anything	over	your	bare	living
expenses	of	food,	shelter,	clothes,	and	transportation	MUST	be	cut	to
zero.	Don’t	go	easy	on	yourself	here.	Just	because	you	
can
	doesn’t	mean
you	should.	Cut	it	to	zero	and	don’t	look	back.	It	will	be	a	short-term
sacrifice	that	will	provide	you	tremendous	long-term	gains.
3.	
No	credit	card	usage.
	Cut	them	up.	Credit	cards	are	one	of	the	biggest
reasons	why	people	can’t	get	out	of	Broke.	Why?	Because	credit	cards
are	not	tools	to	protect	you	against	emergencies.	They	are	tools	to	allow
you	to	splurge.	They	burn	a	hole	in	your	wallet	and	in	your	financial
freedom.	Cut	the	dirty	little	bastards	up	and	do	it	now.	Do	not	keep	“just
one.”	Put	this	book	down	now,	pull	them	out	of	your	wallet,	and	cut	them
up.
4.	
Sell	stuff.
	Once	again,	anything	over	the	basic	necessities	must	go.	I
know	this	sounds	extreme	but	that	is	because	it	IS!	Get	rid	of	it	all.	A
garage	sale,	eBay,	or	Craigslist	should	be	used	to	unload	the	purse,	the
bike	(unless	it	is	your	transportation),	the	extra	furniture,	the	extra
computers,	cameras,	and	the	like—it	all	must	go	in	order	to	generate
some	much-needed	cash	and	momentum.
5.	
Save	$50,000.	
Yes,	$50,000.	I	know	it	might	sound	like	a	pipe	dream.
You	might	be	thinking,	
This	Matt	guy	is	nuts.	I	can’t	pay	the	bills	and	he
thinks	I’m	going	to	save	up	$50,000.	
I	
understand	why	you	would	think
that,	but	this	book	is	the	wake-up	call	you	needed.	I’m	not	going	to	give
you	the	easy	way	out	(but	by	the	time	you	finish	this	book,	it’ll	be	a	lot
easier	than	you	think).	I’m	going	to	tell	you	the	truth—the	actual	steps
that	I	took	to	go	from	zero	to	seven	figures	in	my	savings	accounts.	Until
you	have	$50,000	of	liquid	cash	sitting	in	your	bank	account,	you	aren’t
out	of	Broke.	In	fact,	many	of	the	richest	people	I	have	interviewed	say
my	number	is	stupid.	“Ridiculously	low”	and	“not	even	close”	were	some
of	the	comments	I	heard	when	I	asked	them	if	$50,000	was	a	fair	number.
But	they	have	already	made	it	to	Rich	and	you	haven’t.	Use	my	number
of	$50,000	as	the	goal	to	no	longer	considering	yourself	in	Broke.	But
once	again,	don’t	get	all	proud	of	yourself	once	you	hit	this	number.	All
you	did	was	just	get	out	of	Broke.	The	goal	of	this	journey	you	and	I	are
taking	is	to	get	us	to	Rich.	And	I	don’t	care	how	you	slice	it—while
having	$50,000	saved	up	after	you	started	from	zero	might	feel	really
good,	in	reality	you	are	just	not	broke	anymore.	I	get	that	you	might	be
thinking	that	even	$50,000	saved	up	in	liquid	cash	may	not	be	the	ideal
number	for	your	situation.	In	fact,	$50,000	might	only	be	enough	to	cover
your	bills	for	a	few	months.	I	don’t	think	that	matters.	What	matters	is
that	you	have	this	amount	in	liquid	cash.	It’s	a	new	level	of	power	for
you	and	I	promise	you,	it	will	give	you	the	confidence	that	you	can	get	to
the	next	level.
6.	
Start	earning	more.
	Ultimately,	you	don’t	have	an	expenses	problem
—you	have	a	revenue	problem.	While	you	do	need	to	
cut	your	expenses
right	now	to	start	getting	out	of	Broke,	earning	more	income	should	be
your	focus	over	the	long	term	rather	than	lowering	your	expenses.
Earning	more	is	your	ticket	to	getting	out	of	Broke,	into	Accumulation,
and	eventually	to	Rich.	As	you	start	earning	more,	it	is	essential	that	you
don’t	start	ramping	up	your	expenses	as	well.	All	your	additional	revenue
should	go	into	your	reserve	account—which	I’ll	say	more	about	in	a
moment.	I	will	talk	a	lot	more	about	how	we	are	going	to	make	earning
more	really	happen	for	you	later	in	this	chapter,	but	if	you	want	to	get	out
of	Broke,	you	will	need	more	money	now.	Pick	up	extra	hours	at	work,	or
get	a	second	job	waiting	tables	or	tending	bar.	If	you	are	already	a	solid
earner,	then	become	a	top	earner	by	bringing	more	value	and	more
revenue.	Do	whatever	you	need	to	do,	but	start	the	process	of	earning
more	now	so	that	when	I	show	you	how	to	earn	tens	of	thousands	more,	it
will	make	more	sense	to	you.	Remember,	getting	out	of	Broke	is	the
easiest	phase.
A	BROKE	MIND-SET	IS	THE	PATH	TO	WEALTH
Even	when	you	get	out	of	Broke,	you	need	to	stay	“broke”	in	your	financial
mind.	Remember:	YOU	NEED	MORE	MONEY.	This	is	your	new	mantra.	As
soon	as	you	get	out	of	Broke,	you’ll	start	to	get	comfortable,	and	getting
comfortable	is	disastrous	to	getting	Rich.	Comfortable	is	when	you	start	to	find
ways	to	spend	your	money	instead	of	to	save	and	invest	it.	Comfortable	kills
ambition,	and	ambition	is	one	of	my	keys	to	making	more	money.	Comfortable
happens	when	your	spouse	tries	to	convince	you	that	you	can	afford	the	nicer
house,	or	the	second	car,	or	you	stop	producing	more	value	that	you	can	leverage
for	more	money.
I’m	all	for	celebrating,	but	most	of	us	take	it	to	extreme	levels	that	often	are
not	in	line	with	our	money	situation.	The	little	costs	now	cost	us	big	over	time.
Game	Facers	understand	this	concept,	and	now	so	do	you.
Complacency	is	the	death	of	wealth	accumulation.	When	you	get	out	of
Broke,	you	might	start	to	believe	that	you	are	now	in	Rich.	But	you’re	not	rich.
You’re	just	not	broke	anymore.	Big	difference!	However,	when	the	pressure	of
being	broke	is	no	longer	staring	us	in	the	face	every	day,	we	back	off	the	throttle
and	most	of	us	will	start	to	figure	out	ways	to	celebrate.	What	are	you
celebrating?	That	you	can	now	answer	your	cell	phone	in	public	because	you
don’t	have	collectors	calling	you	anymore?	Yeah,	I	said	it.	How	would	I	know
the	feeling	of	not	being	able	to	answer	my	cell	phone	in	public	for	fear	that
everyone	around	me	would	know	it	was	a	collector?	Because	I	lived	that	life
way	in	the	past,	too.
Very	few	people	in	this	world	are	in	Rich	and	can	afford	to	be	complacent.
What	you	are	in	now	is	Accumulation	Mode.	Accumulation	Mode	starts	when
your	bills	no	longer	come	on	pink	slips,	and	you	have	a	minimum	of	$50,000
liquid	cash	saved	up.	But	you	still	need	to	be	stacking	and	racking	cash	to	get
you	to	your	real	financial	goals.
But	most	of	us	at	this	stage	slip	into	complacency.	We	simply	
stop	staying
laser-focused	on	making	more	money.	People	treat	money	and	their	effort	to
have	it	like	a	thermostat	in	their	house.	Picture	the	thermostat	on	your	wall.
When	the	temperature	gets	too	cold	(
Oh,	shit	.	.	.	I’m	broke	and	will	get	evicted
),
you	go	to	the	thermostat	and	turn	the	heat	up.	That	means	you	start	getting	up
early,	working	out	again,	eating	healthy,	dressing	for	success,	staying	late,
grabbing	some	overtime,	following	up	with	more	customers,	working	every	lead,
and	reducing	spending.	You	start	to	make	smarter	choices,	make	more	money,
and	pull	yourself	out	of	the	hole	you	dug	for	yourself.
Then	what	happens?	You	go	back	to	the	thermostat	and	you	turn	the	air-
conditioning	on	to	cool	things	down	a	bit.	You	have	kept	the	creditors	at	bay	for
another	few	months	because	of	your	increased	efforts,	and	reduction	in
spending,	and	then	bask	in	the	cool	air.	You	stop	pushing	yourself,	start
spending	time	and	money	on	things	you	used	to	say	no	to,	and	quickly	watch
your	results	fall	again.	Before	you	know	it,	you’re	back	on	the	verge	of	Broke
again,	and	the	cycle	repeats	itself,	over	and	over.	Congratulations,	you	have
reached	complacency,	and	you	have	tricked	your	brain	into	thinking	you	are
actually	doing	well.
For	some	of	us,	the	people	who	develop	a	Game	Facer	mind-set,	we	figure
out	the	pace	at	which	we	are	able	to	work	to	keep	the	range	of	the	thermostat
steady	and	at	a	higher	temperature.	We	have	actually	created	a	financial
existence	in	which	we	never	let	it	get	too	cold.	Game	Facers	can	handle	the	heat.
I	challenge	you	to	increase	your	heat	tolerance,	and	increase	your	range.
When	down	the	road	you	get	closer	to	Rich,	you	will	be	
operating	at	an	even
higher	thermostat	for	a	few	years,	and	then	you	will	be	able	to	set	your
thermostat	at	whatever	the	hell	you	want.
The	moment	you	get	out	of	Broke,	you’ve	entered	Accumulation—that
means	continuing	to	behave	as	if	you	are	broke,	while	funneling	every	additional
dollar	toward	your	long-term	goal	of	living	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
ACCUMULATION	MODE
Congratulations:	You	earned	your	ticket	out	of	Broke	and	into	the	Accumulation
phase	of	real	wealth	building.	You	are	one	step	closer	to	becoming	a	full-fledged
Game	Facer.	Now	we	can	get	started	on	stacking	and	racking	real	cash,
accumulating	money	in	accounts	so	that	when	the	opportunity	comes	to	make
real	investments,	you	can.	Give	yourself	a	pat	on	the	back,	celebrate	with	a	long
(but	inexpensive)	weekend	with	your	significant	other,	then	get	back	to	work.
You	now	need	to	build	on	that	$50,000	and	turn	it	into	millions,	because	as	I
have	said	before	and	will	say	again,	the	money	has	moved	and	YOU	NEED
MORE	MONEY.
MORE	MONEY.
Let	me	warn	you	now.	Your	grit,	your	ability	to	stay	the	course,	will	be
tested.	Accumulation	is	the	most	difficult	phase	to	get	out	of.	It	is	hard	to	leave
Accumulation	and	move	into	Rich.	Anyone	can	get	out	of	Broke,	but	getting	out
of	Accumulation	is	a	whole	other	ball	game.	It’s	hard	because	you	will	face
pressure	from	your	family,	friends,	colleagues,	enemies,	neighbors,	and	your
own	desire	to	get	comfortable	and	start	spending	more.
If	your	own	grit	to	keep	at	it	is	eluding	you,	it	could	be	because	
you	spend
too	much	time	looking	to	reward	yourself	rather	than	spending	that	time
developing	a	strong	competitive	drive.	Let	your	unbridled	ambition	kick	in	here.
Every	time	you	feel	the	urge	to	celebrate,	close	your	eyes	and	spend	ten	minutes
visualizing	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	and	think	about	how	far	you	are	from
achieving	it.	Think	about	how	much	progress	you	can	make	toward	your
Lifestyle	by	Design	by	postponing	your	celebration.	Develop	a	gritty	discipline
within	yourself	to	work	and	spend	like	you	are	still	broke.	Game	Facers	have	the
grit	to	postpone	celebrations	and	rewards	in	their	business	and	personal	life.
Until	you	reach	the	time	when	it’s	smart	for	you	to	indulge,	do	everything	in
your	power	to	never	be	worthy	of	the	ultimate	insult	said	about	Blamers	and
Dreamers	in	the	great	state	of	Texas:	“He’s	all	hat	and	no	cattle.”
In	the	town	I	live	in,	I	saw	house	after	house	get	built,	completed,	and	sold.
The	people	who	bought	them	took	on	major	mortgages	to	make	it	happen.	I
guarantee	you,	most	of	them	made	small	down	payments	and	took	thirty-year
mortgages.	According	to	some	of	my	Realtor	friends,	many	of	these	homes	have
not	and	will	not	be	furnished	because	the	owners	don’t	have	the	money	to	do	so.
I	wasn’t	going	to	let	myself	fall	into	a	similar	trap.	“Let	the	Joneses	keep	up
with	the	Joneses”	has	always	been	my	philosophy.	We	Maneros	were	going	to
build	when	we	were	ready	to	build.	Because	I	put	off	buying	a	house	for	years,	I
now	have	the	nicest	one	in	my	neighborhood,	with	a	fraction	of	the	mortgage.
Celebrating	smart	(and	rarely)	can	and	will	save	you	a	ton	of	cash	in	the	long
run.
Here	are	the	most	common	habits	and	comments	I	hear	from	people	in
Accumulation	that	don’t	have	the	grit	to	stay	on	the	path:
“I’m	good.”
	No,	you	are	not	good.	What	does	that	mean,	anyway?	You	are
good	based	on	what?	That	you	can	afford	to	take	a	nice	vacation?	You	can
go	to	a	nice	restaurant?	You	have	a	401(k)	or	a	Roth	IRA?	You	have	a
couple	hundred	thousand	in	the	bank?	None	of	these	facts	put	you	in	the
“I’m	good”	category.	You	are	good	when	you	reach	Rich,	and	you	are	Rich
when	you	are	living	exactly	the	life	you	have	always	dreamed	of,	without	a
care	in	the	world.	Until	that	time,	you	are	either	in	Broke	or	in
Accumulation,	but	you	are	not	“good.”
“I’m	doing	better	than	my	parents.”
	Your	parents	didn’t	do	that	well.
In	fact,	they	didn’t	do	well—they	did	poorly.	Unless	your	parents	were	Rich
(by	my	definition)	and	they	lived	life	on	their	terms,	by	their	design	with	no
financial	worries,	they	don’t	deserve	your	comparison.	You	don’t	need	to
resent	them,	but	let’s	not	use	their	results	as	a	barometer	to	compare	your
results	to.	If	you	are	going	to	compare	yourself	to	someone,	find	someone
who	has	
actually
	created	the	life	you	want	to	live	and	compare	yourself	to
them.
“I	still	have	time.”
	Time	is	not	a	given.	My	brother-in-law,	John,	used	to
tell	me	this	constantly.	He	would	tell	himself	that	he	had	time	to	make	up
the	gap,	but	time	caught	up	to	him.	The	
sooner	you	start,	the	more	easily
you’ll	get	there.	In	our	journey	to	get	rich,	we	are	racing	against	time.	Time
is	a	factor	to	Accumulation	and	getting	to	Rich,	but	it	is	not	something	to	be
toyed	with.	When	you	say	that	“you	still	have	time,”	you	are	lying	to
yourself.	Get	after	it	now	and	stop	believing	that	time	doesn’t	eventually
expire.	It	always	does,	and	you	have	no	control	over	when.
When	you	are	in	Accumulation,	you	need	to	stack	and	rack	cash—lots	and
lots	of	it—so	that	you	can	eventually	make	financial	moves	that	propel	you
closer	to	Rich.
Let	me	set	the	stage	for	how	confusing	the	difference	between	Accumulation
and	Broke	can	be.	It	was	years	ago,	but	I	remember	it	like	it	was	yesterday.
I’m	in	my	closet	at	my	house	getting	dressed	to	go	to	dinner	with	my	wife
and	another	couple,	friends	of	ours.	Once	again,	they	wanted	to	go	to	a	fancy
steak	house	in	Dallas,	Texas,	Bob’s	Chop	House.	We’ve	done	this	exercise
multiple	times.	It	really	should	be	a	nice	double	date	between	me	and	my	wife
and	our	friends.	But	for	me,	it’s	a	nightmare.	God	forbid	I	tell	my	wife	and
friends	that	we	don’t	have	the	money	to	go	to	Bob’s.	As	I’m	getting	dressed	in
my	closet,	I	pull	out	my	credit	card,	and	I	literally	call	the	number	on	the	back	of
the	card	to	check	how	much	money	I	had	available.	Answer?	Five	hundred
bucks.
bucks.
I	have	virtually	no	cash	in	the	bank	and	$500	available	on	my	credit	card
and	I’m	going	to	an	expensive	restaurant.	Absurd,	right?	And	the	thing	is,	you
know	that	you’ve	done	the	
exact	same	thing—saying	yes	when	you	know	you
should	have	said	no.
We	get	in	the	car,	go	to	Bob’s,	and	we	see	our	friends	in	the	lobby.	We’re
hugging,	everyone’s	in	a	good	mood.	The	maître	d’	sits	us	down	at	our	table	of
four	and	I	cringe	inside	as	I	hear	my	friend	say,	“Let’s	order	wine!”
In	my	head	I’m	thinking,	
Please	don’t	order	an	expensive	bottle.
Then	the	wives	say,	“Let’s	order	appetizers	all	around	and	we’ll	split	them!”
So,	now	we’ve	got	wine	and	appetizers.	The	waiter	comes	and	announces
specials	for	the	evening.	There’s	Chilean	sea	bass	and	twenty-eight-ounce	T-
bone	steak,	all	priced	$40	to	$50	each.	The	fun	of	the	evening	for	me	has	now
completely	evaporated.
I	can’t	even	enjoy	myself	because	I’m	pissed	that	I	don’t	have	a	pot	to	piss
in	and	I’m	still	acting	like	I	do!	I’m	stuck	and	I’m	lying	to	myself	and	everyone
around	me	about	it.	I	just	can’t	bring	myself	to	tell	the	truth	and	stop	the
madness.	I’m	terrified	that	my	wife	will	look	at	me	like	I’m	a	loser	and	my
friends	will	think	I’m	cheap.	I’m	viewed	as	a	hotshot	entrepreneur!	I	should	have
money	to	burn!
Before	long,	I’m	looking	at	the	table	and	there’s	shrimp	and	salmon,	two	T-
bones,	and	a	second	bottle	of	wine.
Just	as	we’re	finishing	up	and	I’m	trying	to	signal	to	the	waiter	for	the
check,	our	wives	announce,	“Let’s	order	a	bunch	of	different	desserts	and	split
them!”
At	this	point,	I	excuse	myself	from	the	table.	I	go	into	the	
bathroom,	go	into
a	stall,	and	call	the	credit	card	company	again,	just	to	make	sure	I	really	did	have
that	$500	in	my	account.
On	my	way	back,	I	stop	the	waiter,	give	him	my	card,	and	$460	later,
including	tip,	I	paid	for	the	entire	dinner.	Why	did	I	do	that?	Remember,	I	didn’t
want	to	look	like	a	loser.	I	was	the	fancy	entrepreneur!	I	couldn’t	let	my	friends
or	wife	know	I	was	really	broke.	I	was	a	schmuck.
I	go	back	to	the	table	to	everyone	full	and	happy.	The	waiter	comes	back
and	says,	“Mr.	Manero	picked	up	the	tab.”
My	wife	gives	me	a	kiss	on	the	cheek.	My	buddy	says,	“I’ll	get	you	next
time!”
Next	time?!	I	gotta	do	this	again?
Instead	of	$500	on	a	credit	card,	I	leave	with	$40	left	to	my	name,	on	credit.
Instead	of	$500	on	a	credit	card,	I	leave	with	$40	left	to	my	name,	on	credit.
According	to	my	definition,	that	is	flat-ass	broke.	And	we	can	all	agree	that	it’s
stupid.	That’s	when	I	woke	up	and	decided	something	had	to	change.
Many	people	play	the	charade	like	I	did.	Some	do	it	while	they	are	young
like	I	was,	but	some	do	it	forever.	It	has	happened	for	decades,	especially	before
the	recession	of	2008.	It	was	easy	to	mask	what	we	didn’t	have	and	BS	our	way
around.	In	2008,	we	all	had	a	wake-up	call.	Now	it’s	the	real	deal.	Whereas	a
nice	car	with	a	dumpy	apartment	or	a	fake	Rolex	used	to	fool	some	people,	after
the	recession	so	many	people	were	forced	to	live	on	the	truth.	The	economic
downturn	negatively	affected	tens	of	millions	of	people,	with	real	financial	pain
in	most	cases,	but	it	came	with	a	silver	lining:	It	made	people	reconnect	to	what
matters	most—personal	happiness,	family,	friends,	loved	ones,	and	the	
truth.	It
convinced	people	to	give	up	on	the	fakeness	and	focus	on	the	truth.	(Although,
in	the	past	few	years,	history	is	starting	to	repeat	itself.	The	good	times	are	back
and	so	are	the	phonies.)
A	few	weeks	later,	my	wife	said,	“Hey,	the	Werners	want	to	go	out	with	us.”
I	said,	“We’re	not	going	to	Bob’s	Chop	House,	we’re	in	Accumulation
Mode.”
She	said,	“What’s	that?”
I	said,	“We’re	in	stack	and	rack	mode,	honey.	I	call	it	Accumulation	Mode.”
“What	are	we	accumulating	for?”	she	asked.
I	said,	“For	our	freedom.”
Lucky	for	me,	my	wife	liked	the	sound	of	it	and	got	on	board.	She	was	in.
“What	are	we	gonna	tell	the	Werners?”	she	asked.
I	told	her	I	would	take	care	of	that.
I	called	up	my	buddy	and	said,	“We’re	excited	to	go	out	to	dinner	with	you,
but	I’m	not	dropping	$400	on	Bob’s	anymore.	We’re	going	to	go	for	tacos.	I’m
no	longer	in	spend	mode,	my	friend.	I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode.”
I	began	to	feel	powerful	when	I	said,	“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode.”
Accumulation	means	“I’m	in	stacking	and	racking	cash	mode,”	and	that	gave	me
confidence	and	power.	I	promise	you,	when	you	start	to	tell	people,	“I’m	in
Accumulation	Mode,”	the	same	power	and	confidence	will	flow	to	you.
I’ll	never	forget	the	night	I	said	we	were	going	for	tacos.	You	don’t	have	to
spend	a	lot	to	have	a	great	time,	and	we	did	both.
The	best	part	was	at	the	end	of	the	night,	when	my	buddy	took	me	aside	and
said,	“Thank	you	for	saying	we’re	not	going	to	Bob’s.	You	know	why?	I
couldn’t	afford	it	either.”
You	don’t	need	to	drop	$460	to	have	a	good	time	with	good	friends,	and	if
you	do,	those	may	not	be	the	friends	you	want	to	be	hanging	with	anyway.
you	do,	those	may	not	be	the	friends	you	want	to	be	hanging	with	anyway.
For	me,	when	I	started	saying,	“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode,”	the	slipping
back	into	Broke,	the	dishonesty	with	my	friends	and	everyone	around	me	was
over.	It	allowed	me	to	kick	that	dark	side	once	and	for	all.	I	was	moving	toward
the	light	and	that	light	was	financial	freedom.
But	how?
By	telling	
everyone
.
Tell	everyone,	“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode!”
You’ll	instantly	see	the	power	that	those	words	bring,	just	like	I	did	with	my
friend.	But	you	have	to	have	the	guts	to	put	yourself	in	that	position.	This	also
goes	back	to	not	being	afraid	to	talk	about	money.	When	you	break	down	those
barriers	and	start	being	honest,	you’ll	see	things	start	to	change.
Start	saying	it	to	yourself.	Next	time	you’re	wondering	what	to	do	for
dinner,	say,	“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode,”	and	have	a	simple	meal	at	home.
Anytime	you	find	yourself	about	to	blow	cash	on	something	you	don’t
absolutely	need,	stop	yourself	and	say,	“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode.”
It’ll	start	to	flow	right	off	your	tongue.	Some	people	are	not	going	to
continue	to	hang	out	with	you.	But	the	ones	who	care	
about	you,	your	real
friends,	those	are	the	ones	that	will	come	up	to	you	and	whisper	in	your	ear,
“Thanks.	I	need	to	be	in	Accumulation	Mode,	too.”
Okay,	I	think	you	get	it,	so	let’s	put	it	into	action.	Here	are	the	four	key	steps
to	stacking	and	racking	cash	during	Accumulation:
1.	
You	must	focus	on	your	money.
	Once	you’re	out	of	Broke,	you	can
now	stop	having	to	cut	spending	completely.	But	be	careful.	You’ll	want
to	celebrate,	to	back	off,	to	take	your	hand	off	the	throttle;	you	must	force
yourself	not	to	let	this	happen.	What	you	focus	on	will	get	accomplished,
and	focusing	on	money	when	you	are	in	Accumulation	is	vital.	Think	of
it	like	this:	Remember	when	you	were	in	school	and	you	procrastinated
on	your	term	paper?	The	teacher	gave	out	the	assignment	with	plenty	of
time	to	complete	it,	but	you	(and	I)	waited	and	waited	until	the	last
minute	to	buckle	down,	focus	on	it,	and	finish.	The	result	was	often	less
than	our	best	effort,	poorly	thought	through,	and	most	often	a	less	than
stellar	grade.	Perhaps	you	were	“that	person”	who	could	wait	until	the
last	minute,	pull	the	all-nighter,	and	still	get	an	A.	Well,	good	for	you,	but
last-minute	efforts	won’t	help	you	in	the	wealth	accumulation	game.	If
you	don’t	take	the	time	to	focus,	plan,	stack	and	rack,	prepare,	research,
analyze,	and	then	execute	on	your	plan,	you	will	end	up	with	an	F	in
retirement.	And	in	retirement	is	where	the	real	grades	count.
2.	
You	must	create	a	second	bank	account.	
Please	listen	carefully	to
me:	You	can’t	have	just	one	bank	account.	You	must	
have	a	minimum	of
two.	Your	first	account	will	be	your	“operating	account.”	This	is	the
account	that	will	be	used	to	pay	your	bills	and	nothing	more.	Your
second	account	will	be	for	
every	single	other	dollar
.	Stop	mixing	up	your
stack	and	rack	cash	with	your	operating	account.	Your	money	needs	to	be
separated.	Because	when	your	money	is	all	in	one	place,	you	will	spend
it.	The	single	biggest	choice	I	made	when	I	got	out	of	Broke	and	into
Accumulation	was	to	employ	this	strategy.	Because	I’m	self-employed,	I
was	able	to	set	up	two	accounts	with	our	payroll	company.	I	determined
how	much	money	I	needed	to	cover	my	bills	each	month	(we	did	this
exercise	already;	see	page	70)	and	that	became	account	one,	called	my
operating	account.	Every	other	dollar	above	my	bills	went	into	my
second	account.	I	call	it	my	reserve	account.	It	became	the	account	that
held	my	money	for	future	use.	Your	second	account	is	
not
	a	secret	stash
or	European	vacation	fund.	It	is	isolated	for	a	reason	.	.	.	it	is	not	to	be
touched.	You’re	in	Accumulation	to	get	to	Rich.
3.	
Make	more	money.
	Here	it	is	again.	Saving	can	only	get	you	so	far.	If
you	really	want	to	accumulate	your	way	into	Rich,	you	need	to	start
earning	more.	Don’t	worry,	we’ll	get	to	how	later.
4.	
Upgrade	your	network.
	When	you	are	in	Accumulation,	you	will
need	to	move	up	the	food	chain	with	respect	to	the	people	you	surround
yourself	with.	The	higher	up	the	food	chain	you	go,	the	more
opportunities	will	come	your	way.	The	odds	of	getting	rich	by	leaving
your	money	in	your	bank	account	earning	0.05	percent	interest	are
ZERO.	It	will	not	happen.	If	
you	want	to	get	rich,	you	are	going	to	have
to	make	bigger	moves.	You	are	going	to	have	to	find	and	connect	with
people	who	support	you	and	provide	you	opportunities.
Now,	you’re	probably	asking,	
When	does	Accumulation	end?
This	is	perhaps	the	most	controversial	part	of	this	book.	
You	can’t	even
think	about	leaving	Accumulation	Mode	until	you	have	invested	or	have
liquid	assets	of	$5	million.	That’s	right,	$5	million.
How	did	I	come	up	with	this	amount?	Easy.	First,	it	is	the	result	of	the	1X,
3X,	5X,	10X	formula.	If	you	make	$500,000	per	year	and	you	are	in	your	fifties,
you	should	have	a	$5	million	net	worth.	I’m	giving	you	the	number	of	$5	million
you	should	have	a	$5	million	net	worth.	I’m	giving	you	the	number	of	$5	million
if	you’re	looking	for	a	hard	one,	but	it	might	not	necessarily	be	that	for	you;	it’s
just	a	suggestion.	What	it	does	need	to	be	is	10X	your	annual	income	as	your	net
worth,	so	that	10X—or	$5	million—can	be	placed	into	investment	tools	such	as
stocks,	bonds,	and	treasuries,	and	you	might	be	able	to	then	achieve	a	5	percent
annual	return.	Now,	I’m	not	saying	you	shouldn’t	start	investing	sooner	(because
you	should),	but	once	you	get	to	the	point	of	having	invested	$5	million	with
(let’s	just	say)	a	5	percent	annual	return,	it	will	end	up	providing	you	with
$250,000	per	year	before	you	touch	your	principal.	I	actually	think	you	should
start	investing	in	mutual	funds,	stocks,	and	real	estate	when	you	have	anywhere
from	$50,000	to	$100,000	saved.	That’s	because	only	then	have	you	reached	the
right	mind-set	and	momentum	to	get	to	the	next	phase	of	wealth.
But	back	to	the	$250,000—it’s	not	a	bad	income	for	most	people	to	live	off
of	in	retirement,	but	that	is	your	choice.	I’d	say	only	then	that	someone	is	out	of
Accumulation	because	that	is	ten	times	the	amount	that	most	Americans	live	on
during	retirement.	Most	people	can	live	a	nice	life	on	$250,000	a	year.	It’s	not
enough	for	me	to	live	
my
	Lifestyle	by	Design,	but	if	you	can	get	to	$250,000	per
year	in	passive	income,	you	will	be	able	to	retire	without	worrying	that	you’ll
run	out	of	money.	But	when	you	do	get	to	that	point,	you’ll	find	that	you	have
the	capacity	to	go	even	bigger.	I	remind	you	again	of	the	principle	of	this	book:	I
NEED	MORE	MONEY,	YOU	NEED	MORE	MONEY,	WE	ALL	NEED
MORE	MONEY!	Don’t	go	easy	on	yourself.	Push	yourself	to	dream	bigger	and
therefore	live	better	in	retirement.	Every	single	person	I	know	who	actually	has
$5	million	wishes	they	had	more.	Because	for	Game	Facers,	they	know	that	if
they	can	reach	a	major	milestone	like	that,	they	can	also	reach	higher.
THE	POWER	OF	“I’M	IN	ACCUMULATION	MODE”
We’ve	now	established	that	most	of	us	are	in	Accumulation	Mode,	especially	if
you’re	reading	this	book.	The	ability	to	start	using	the	statement	“I’m	in
Accumulation	Mode”	will	change	your	entire	financial	life,	just	like	it	did	mine.
This	simple	statement	has	removed	all	of	the	stigma,	the	guilt	I	had	connected	to
saying	no.	Saying	no	to	splurging	on	the	latest	phones	and	gadgets	that	in	reality
wreaked	havoc	on	my	future	retirement.	Saying	no	to	trips	for	select	soccer	or
lacrosse	tournaments.	Saying	
no	to	vacations	to	exotic	places	that	would	push
me	back	years	from	achieving	my	Lifestyle	by	Design.
Here	is	what	I	mean:	The	average	cost	for	a	family	of	four	to	go	on	an
average	trip	to	Disneyland	is	$5,000,	including	airfare,	hotel,	passes,	and	food.	If
that	$5,000	is	put	away	for	twenty	years,	at	a	6	percent	annual	return	and	you
added	only	$100	per	month	to	it,	you	would	have	$62,824	saved	up.	So,	don’t
tell	me,	“The	children	need	a	trip!”	Many	families	take	their	children	to
Disneyland	when	the	kids	are	five	and	seven	years	old.	Trust	me,	they	would	be
just	as	happy	taking	a	road	trip	to	the	beach	or	to	a	fishing	cabin	in	the	woods	at
that	age.	Put	it	off	one	year	and	you	will	have	saved	the	$5,000	from	that	year	in
today’s	dollars	and	almost	$63,000	in	tomorrow’s	dollars.	Now,	let’s	get	really
serious	.	.	.	if	you	put	off	the	Disney	trip	for	two	years	(that	means	you	saved	the
$5,000	from	two	years	ago	of	not	going	to	Disneyland	in	your	retirement
account	wisely	and	instead	spent	a	new	$5,000	on	your	deprived	children	when
they	are	seven	and	nine	years	old),	you	will	end	up	saving	$78,800	in	your
retirement	account.	That	makes	saying,	“We	can’t	go	this	year.	We	are	in
Accumulation	Mode,”	far	less	painful,	doesn’t	it?	By	putting	off	Disneyland	for
just	two	years,	you	will	have	an	extra	$78,800.
The	beautiful	part	of	being	in	Accumulation	Mode	is	that	your	worst	fears
won’t	come	true.	Maybe	you’re	afraid	that	your	friends	won’t	want	to	hang	out
with	you	or	that	your	status	in	the	community	will	be	lowered.	You’re	afraid	of
being	knocked	off	your	pedestal.	You’re	afraid	you’ll	disappoint	your	spouse	if
you	don’t	plan	an	elaborate	vacation	for	the	two	of	you.	Nothing	
could	be	further
from	the	truth.	When	I	made	the	decision	to	define	the	three	stages	of	wealth	as
Broke,	Accumulation,	and	Rich,	I	went	into	Accumulation	Mode	hook,	line,	and
sinker.	I	started	by	telling	my	wife,	“We	are	not	broke,	but	we	are	not	rich	yet.
We	are	in	Accumulation	Mode.”	This	simple	statement,	along	with	the	funding
of	my	reserve	account,	have	been	the	two	most	important	decisions	I	have	ever
made	in	building	wealth.
RESERVE	ACCOUNT
Perhaps	the	most	important	strategy	to	achieve	my	financial	success	has	been	the
creation	and	execution	of	a	reserve	account.	I	mentioned	this	a	few	times	before,
and	now	I’m	going	to	tell	you	exactly	how	it	works.	Keeping	my	mind	in	a	state
of	constant	“broke-ness”	while	stacking	and	racking	cash	has	made	all	the
difference.	I	created	two	bank	accounts	in	my	life.	The	first	account	is	what	I
call	the	household	or	operating	account.	You	probably	already	have	this	account.
It’s	your	normal	checking	account	at	your	bank.	Your	paycheck	is	deposited	into
It’s	your	normal	checking	account	at	your	bank.	Your	paycheck	is	deposited	into
it	manually	or	via	direct	deposit	each	pay	period.
The	second	account	is	called	the	reserve	account.	This	account,	as	you	will
quickly	see,	will	become	one	of	the	single	best	decisions	you	have	ever	made.	I
have	used	two	bank	accounts	for	more	than	fifteen	years	in	both	my	personal	and
business	life	and	it	has	saved	my	ass	many,	many	times.	Most	people	have	this
backward.	They	spend	a	ton	of	time	working	in	and	watching	
their	operating
account	and	very	little	time	with	their	second	account,	their	reserve	account.
I’m	going	to	now	show	you	how	to	turn	this	thought	process	on	its	head.
You	will	now	learn	how	to	spend	very	little	time	in	your	operating	account	and	a
lot	more	time	in	your	reserve	account.	You	might	think	it	sounds	so	simple
—“duh,	that’s	called	a	savings	account!”
Well,	you’re	kind	of	right.	First	of	all,	it	is	so	simple,	but	hardly	ever	done.
But	what	really	differentiates	a	reserve	account	from	a	savings	account	is	how
you	think	about	and	use	it.	I’m	going	to	show	you	exactly	how	to	use	the	reserve
account	in	a	way	that	makes	it	much	more	useful	than	a	regular	savings	account.
The	reality	is	that	most	of	us	don’t	want	to	bother	with	multiple	bank
accounts	and	don’t	have	the	backbone	to	say	no	to	ourselves	or	others.
Therefore,	we	use	only	one	bank	account	and	we	fund	it	with	all	the	income
needed	to	pay	our	bills	plus	a	little	more—and	we	spend	it	all.	Your	operating
account	is	the	one	in	which	the	revenue	(your	paycheck)	comes	in	and	the
expenses	go	out.	This	is	the	account	that	most	people	deposit	all	of	their	money
into,	and	because	of	that,	the	money	goes	in	and	goes	out	within	a	very	short
period	of	time.	This	happens	because	we	hate	to	say	no	to	ourselves	or	others.
We	just	have	to	have	it	and	we	have	to	have	it	now!	We	cook	the	cash	each	and
every	month	and	we	never	get	ahead.	But	that	is	not	you,	not	anymore	at	least.
Together,	you	and	I	have	made	the	choice	to	get	more	money,	and	we	start	right
now.
The	reserve	account	method	does	not	require	you	to	fight	against	this	urge.
In	fact,	this	way	you’re	free	to	spend	every	dollar	in	your	operating	account.
Burn	it	up.	With	this	method,	I	want	you	to	cook	the	cash	in	it.	Why?	Because,
eventually,	your	operating	account	will	be	on	autopilot	and	your	reserve	will	be
in	place.	The	reserve	account	is	where	you	want	your	attention.	It	is	your
security	blanket,	your	armor,	your	protection.	Now,	the	big	question:	how	much
of	your	income	should	go	into	your	reserve	account?	The	answer	is	simple:
every	dollar	
above	
your	monthly	expenses	should	go	into	your	reserve	account.
Figure	out	your	monthly	bills	(you	should	have	already	done	this).	Make	sure
that	amount	of	money	goes	into	your	operating	account.	Your	monthly	bills
should	include	ALL	of	your	monthly	expenses.	That	means	you	should	have	a
few	bucks	budgeted	for	your	anniversary	gift,	the	kids’	birthday	party,	or	even
date	night.	I	might	also	suggest	that	you	have	an	emergency	amount	in	place
each	month	to	help	you	be	prepared	for	surprises,	such	as	a	broken	stove	or	a	flat
tire.	Next,	set	up	all	of	your	fixed	bills,	such	as	rent,	mortgage,	car	payments,
utilities,	cell	phone,	etc.,	in	your	operating	account	on	auto-withdrawal	each
month.	You	should	no	longer	be	in	the	check-writing	business.	Every	bill	should
be	automatically	deducted	from	your	account	by	ACH/auto-withdrawal.	This
allows	you	to	stay	100	percent	focused	on	the	two	key	components	of	this	book:
generating	more	revenue
	and	
funding	your	reserve	account.
	Call	the	company
you	owe,	and	have	their	monthly	bill	put	on	ACH.	Some	will	set	it	up	for	you
over	the	phone	and	some	will	require	
you	to	go	online	to	set	it	up.	In	either	case,
make	it	happen
.	Just	set	it	and	forget	it.
Your	reserve	account	will	quickly	become	your	power	account.	I	promise
you	with	100	percent	certainty,	if	you	get	your	operating	account	on	autopilot
and	you	get	your	reserve	account	set	up	and	start	funding	it,	everything	in	your
financial	world	will	change	for	the	better.	That	sounds	like	something	worth
doing,	doesn’t	it?
Once	your	operating	account	is	set	up	at	your	bank,	go	to	a	second	bank
—
not
	the	same	bank	that	holds	your	operating	account—and	set	up	another
account	called	a	reserve	account.	You	will	now	have	two	separate	accounts:	your
operating	account	at	one	bank,	and	your	reserve	account	at	another	bank.	Why
two	banks?	Because	I	want	it	to	be	difficult	to	get	to	your	reserve	account.	If	you
have	both	accounts	at	the	same	bank,	you	will	be	tempted	to	transfer	your
reserve	to	your	operating	account	if	you	come	up	short.	
This	can’t	happen
.	Your
reserve	account	should	
not
	have	checks	or	an	ATM	card	connected	to	it.	You
must	make	it	difficult	to	tap	into	it.	
Your	reserve	account	should	only	be
tapped	into	for	cash	flow–
generating
	opportunities.	It	should	
never
—I
repeat	
never
—be	used	for	
non
-cash	flow–generating	activities.
	It	is	not	an
emergency	fund.	It	is	not	a	secret	stash.	It	is	not	a	“don’t	tell	my	spouse”
account.	It	is	to	be	used	to	build	you	a	nest	egg	that	
you
	will	use	when	you	have
done	your	research	and	analysis	on	a	future	investment	and	pull	the	trigger	and
invest.	The	only	time	you	would	dip	into	your	reserve	account	is	for	a
moneymaking	opportunity	you	can’t	pass	up.	I’m	
talking	about	those
opportunities	that	might	only	come	along	two	or	three	times	in	a	lifetime.
Examples	of	this	could	be:
A	piece	of	property	that	you	can	get	for	$0.60	on	the	dollar
Valuable	stocks	way	down	due	to	a	recession
Special	inventory	for	your	business
The	opportunity	to	buy	a	business	on	the	cheap
The	opportunity	to	invest	with	someone	much	wealthier	than	you
It	should	go	without	saying	that	before	taking	money	out	of	your	reserve
account	to	fund	an	investment	opportunity,	you	need	to	do	extensive	research
and	analysis	to	ensure	you	understand	exactly	what	you’re	putting	your	money
into.
Now,	how	much	should	you	have	in	your	reserve	account?	The	old	adage
was	save	10	percent	of	your	salary	and	you	will	retire	poor,	save	15	percent	and
you	will	retire	middle	class,	and	save	20	percent	and	you	will	retire	rich.	This	is
just	not	true.	This	may	have	worked	for	people	at	one	time,	but	it	won’t	help	you
now.	None	of	these	percentages	matter.	You	are	going	to	have	enough	money	in
your	operating	account	to	cover	your	monthly	bills	based	on	your	budget,	and
100	percent	of	the	rest	will	go	into	your	reserve	account.	
Period.	End	of	story
.	If
you	don’t	get	this	right,	you	will	miss	out.	If	you	spend	your	life	working	off	one
bank	account	in	which	all	of	your	deposits	and	withdrawals	go	into	it,	odds	are
you	will	spend	it	all	and	you	will	never	build	wealth.	Beware	of	the	power	of	our
brains	to	tell	us	that	we	can	
afford	it,	or	that	we	can	spoil	ourselves,	or	that	it’s
okay	to	spend	it	now	because	we	have	a	big	commission	check	coming	in	next
week.	Giving	in	to	these	thoughts	will	kill	your	financial	future.	I	want	you	to
have	the	FREEDOM	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	creates.	And	if	you	follow	my
lead	here	and	set	up	two	accounts	and	fund	them	in	the	manner	I	described,	you
will	be	well	on	your	way	to	making	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	a	reality.	It’s	that
easy,	I	promise.	You	just	gotta	set	it	up	and	execute	on	it.
DON’T	SPEND	YOUR	EXCESS
As	you	make	progress	along	your	path	to	Rich,	you’ll	have	a	lot	of	opportunities
to	upgrade	your	lifestyle,	but	only	some	of	them	are	really	worth	it.	I’m	a	huge
fan	of	flying	myself	around	in	first	class.	It	is	one	of	the	few	things	that	I	think	is
a	bargain.	Why?	Because	it	is	a	hedge	against	the	cost	of	time.	In	other	words,	if
I	spend	a	few	hundred	bucks	more	to	fly	first	class,	I	pick	up	time.	Less	time	in
lines	at	security,	less	time	getting	on	and	off	the	plane.	In	most	cases,	I’m	off	the
plane	and	in	an	Uber	on	my	way	to	a	meeting	before	the	last	person	in	deep
coach	is	even	off	the	plane.	This	might	save	me	forty-five	minutes,	and	that	time
is	extremely	valuable	to	me	when	I	fill	my	calendar	to	the	levels	that	I	do,	with
money-generating	activities	that	more	than	make	up	for	the	cost	of	my	flight.
The	additional	room,	comfort,	and	better	service	are	just	added	bonuses.	But	few
other	upgrades	pay	for	themselves	the	same	way.	I	could	have	traded	in	my
Chevy	Suburban	for	a	Range	Rover	years	ago,	but	I	have	
three	boys	who	play
sports	and	I	have	coached	all	of	them	and	their	friends	for	years	now,	and	I	don’t
want	to	worry	about	things	like	mud	on	the	carpets	of	my	Range	Rover.	I	like
things	to	be	simple.	I	already	have	enough	to	worry	about	without	having	to
worry	about	impressing	people	with	showy	upgrades.
Trust	me:	at	the	end	of	the	day,	countertops	are	just	something	you	cut	on,
floors	are	just	something	you	walk	on,	and	cars	just	get	you	from	point	A	to
point	B.	Once	you	are	fully	on	purpose	with	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	and
because	your	money	situation	has	improved,	I	challenge	you	to	think	less	about
the	upgrades.	They	cost	a	ton,	don’t	always	bring	back	the	value	on	resale	that
you	paid	for	them,	and	often	add	aggravation	to	your	life.
MILESTONES	OF	SAVINGS	MATTER
Rokki	and	I	married	in	October	1999.	She	loves	to	ask	me,	“What	day	did	your
life	begin?”	because	I	always	answer	it	with,	“October	22,	1999.”	It’s	true.	The
day	I	married	Rokki,	my	life	as	an	adult	really	did	begin.	Prior	to	that,	I	was
basically	busted	broke,	trying	to	get	a	business	off	the	ground	(without	much
luck	for	years),	but	I	also	was	incredibly	selfish	and	self-centered.	I	was	out	for
me	and	me	only.	In	reality,	I	needed	a	push	further	than	keeping	food	on	
my
table	and	a	roof	over	
my
	head.	When	I	married	Rokki,	and	when	we	had	our	first
son,	Johnny	Boy,	in	2001,	you	can	be	damn	sure	that	motivation	kicked	in	and
kicked	in	big-time.	Rokki	showed	me	how	to	love	unconditionally,	and	in	return,
I	have	wanted	to	provide	her	with	financial	security	and	
a	steady	stream	of	a	ton
of	income.	My	other	half	is	my	best	half,	and	I	was	1,000	percent	committed	to
giving	her	a	Lifestyle	by	Design—our	design.
Unfortunately,	for	many	years,	I	didn’t.	My	business	started	from	zero	in	a
one-bedroom	apartment	with	a	phone	and	folding	table	and	it	just	wasn’t	going
anywhere.	It	was	a	constant	struggle	to	find	more	clients,	hire	more	people,	and
make	more	profits.	However,	through	all	of	the	struggle,	the	hirings	and	firings,
the	lean	years,	I	remember	like	it	was	yesterday	when	I	had	$10,000	saved	up.	I
called	Rokki	into	the	office	and	showed	her	the	bank	statement	of	our	reserve
account	and	it	showed	$10,000	in	it.	Free	and	clear,	we	had	$10,000!	We	both
looked	at	each	other	like	it	was	all	the	money	in	the	world.	We	just	couldn’t
believe	that	we	had	saved	
that	much	money
!	We	really	had	scrimped	and	saved,
and	look	what	we	had	to	show	for	it!	We	were	committed	to	that	$10,000,	so	we
worked	hard	
and
	smart.	See,	that	$10,000	was	the	by-product	of	having	a	reserve
account.	Without	a	separate	reserve	account	in	which	we	put	20	to	40	percent	of
our	gross	income,	that	first	$10,000	would	have	never	happened.	We	would	have
spent	it	all.
The	10K	Day	is	a	day	that	I	will	never	forget,	because	that	$10,000	meant
more	to	Rokki	and	me	than	the	day	I	had	$1	million	in	that	same	reserve
account.	Why?	Because	when	you	come	from	broke,	big	numbers	like	$1	million
seem	like	a	pipe	dream.	Why	else	does	the	great	financial	guru	Dave	Ramsey
say	you	need	a	starter	fund	of	$1,000?	Because	it	seems	attainable	to	most
people—and	it	is.	And	if	you	can	reach	small	steps,	maybe,	
just	maybe,	you	can
reach	bigger	steps	as	well.	That	was	the	same	thing	that	happened	to	me	when
Rokki	and	I	hit	$10,000.	It	was	the	first	time	in	my	life	that	I	actually	thought	I
could	accumulate	some	money.	The	problem	was,	as	I	have	said	and	will
continue	to	say	throughout	this	book,	it	was
	too	small	a	number.
	I	was	coming
from	broke,	so	$10,000	seemed	like	a	lot.	But	I	was	wrong.	As	I	said	before,
having	$10,000	saved	up	was	great,	but	in	the	big	picture	of	earning	and	saving
more,	it	was	just	a	drop	in	the	bucket.
Now,	if	you	are	starting	like	I	was—from	zero—then	$10,000	is	a	big
accomplishment,	but	let’s	not	lose	focus	of	the	primary	message	of	this	book.
You	need	more	money,	I	need	more	money,	we	need	more	money,	and,	in	order
to	get	it,	we	are	going	to	have	to	
radically	
adjust	the	way	we	look	at	success.	So,
while	Rokki	and	I	now	had	$10,000	saved	up,	I	only	celebrated	for	about	twenty
seconds,	after	which	I	turned	up	the	heat	and	got	back	on	the	earning	horse	to	get
the	number	higher.	You	will	need	to	do	the	same	mental	celebration	followed	by
“back	to	the	grind”	over	and	over	and	over	in	your	pursuit	of	money.
I	would	love	to	say	that	you	can	take	a	small	amount	and	turn	it	into	a	big
amount,	but	the	only	way	to	do	that	is	to	crank	up	the	heat	and	watch	the
milestones	go	by.	You	will	need	to	hit	the	milestone	of	$10,000,	followed	by	the
milestone	of	$25,000,	followed	by	the	milestones	of	$50,000,	$75,000,
$100,000,	and	so	on.	The	key	is	to	crank	up	the	heat	and	our	revenue-generating
machine	to	a	level	that	allows	us	to	cross	these	milestones	quickly.	I	put	enough
focus	on	increasing	my	revenue	fast	enough	
to	blow	past	each	milestone,	and
although	I	eventually	got	over	the	$1	million	mark,	it	simply	took	me	too	long.
Remember,	I	want	you	to	kick	the	shit	out	of	my	success.	I	want	you	to	win	at
the	game	of	money	faster	and	at	higher	levels	than	I	did.	Learn	from	my	honesty
here.	
Hit	these	milestones,	celebrate	for	a	just	a	few	minutes,	and	then	get
back	to	the	massive	effort	to	generate	more	revenue	and	hit	the	next
milestone.
	Until	you	have	more	than	$100,000	in	your	reserve	account,	don’t
even	think	about	cooling	off	and	celebrating	for	more	than	a	few	minutes.	The
goal	must	be	to	reach	$100,000	as	quickly	as	possible.	What	you	will	do	with	the
$100,000	and	the	amounts	above	that	is	something	that	we’ll	tackle	later,	but	for
now,	the	minimum	number	that	you	must	have	in	your	reserve	account	before
you	celebrate	is	$100,000.
Money	is	a	lot	like	reaching	your	potential	or	achieving	your	goals.	The	only
thing	that	happens	is	you	realize	you	have	more	potential	or	more	goals.	The
more	money	I	make,	the	more	it	makes	me	realize	how	much	more	money	I
really	need.	Remember,	most	of	our	money	goals	and	expectations	are	set	by
other	people.	Your	goals	need	to	be	your	goals,	not	goals	set	for	you	by	someone
else.
HOW	TO	KNOW	WHEN	YOU’RE	RICH—AND	WHAT	TO	DO
WHEN	YOU	ARE
How	do	you	know	when	you’re	out	of	Accumulation	and	into	Rich?	When	you
no	longer	have	to	go	to	work	to	earn	income	to	
live	the	life	that	you	have
designed	for	yourself.	This	transition	applies	to	the	primary	principle	of	YOU
NEED	MORE	MONEY:	you	need	more	money	to	live	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
Your	Lifestyle	by	Design	could	be,	“I	want	to	drive	a	truck	for	six	months
out	of	the	year	and	I	want	to	hike	the	Appalachian	Trail	for	the	other	six
months.”	You’re	in	Rich	when	you	have	enough	money	to	do	that.	You	have
reached	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
My	version	of	Rich	is	that	I	now	have	enough	money	to	live	the	lifestyle	that
I	have	designed	and	I	don’t	have	to	go	to	work	every	day	for	a	paycheck.	That
road	to	Rich	is	far	more	difficult	than	you	think	it	is.	The	vision	of	surfing	six
months	out	of	the	year	will	99	percent	of	the	time	be	just	that—a	vision.	Rich
people	get	rich	because	they	worked	for	it,	or	inherited	it	(good	luck	with	that).
They	didn’t	limp	into	Rich.	The	primary	reason	why	people	never	get	to	Rich	is
because	they	never	carve	out	a	path	to	get	themselves	there.	They	end	up	living	a
because	they	never	carve	out	a	path	to	get	themselves	there.	They	end	up	living	a
Lifestyle	by	Design	created	by	someone	else.	But	this	will	not	be	you,	because
you	are	becoming	a	Game	Facer.
As	I	said	before,	living	a	lifestyle	of	your	own	design	doesn’t	mean	that	you
have	
to	be	the	boss	of	your	own	company.	I	have	multiple	employees	working
for	me	who	live	incredibly	rich,	satisfied	lifestyles.	They	have	a	clear	vision	of
how	they	want	to	live.	They	generate	plenty	of	income	under	the	business	plan
that	has	been	designed	for	them.	They	have	absolutely	none	of	the	headaches
that	come	with	running	a	business—I	take	on	those	headaches	for	them.	I’m	the
one	that	has	to	make	sure	that	the	IT	guy	
doesn’t	quit	in	the	middle	of	the	night
and	that	someone	shows	up	for	work	tomorrow.	I’m	the	guy	that	has	to	create
the	surplus	account	to	handle	litigation.	I	have	to	deal	with	it	all.
You	might	ask,	if	I’m	living	a	lifestyle	by	my	design,	why	do	I	do	all	that,
when	I	could	easily	hire	someone	to	manage	all	of	that	for	me?	Because	I	enjoy
being	an	entrepreneur,	a	problem	solver,	and	part	of	my	design	includes	being	a
leader	to	my	team.
You	do	not	have	to	be	the	boss	to	get	rich.	You	just	have	to	figure	out	a	few
simple	things.
My	friend	Stanley	is	the	perfect	example	of	this.	He’s	the	guy	who	hosts	the
poker	game	I’ve	been	going	to	on	the	second	Tuesday	of	every	month	for	the
past	thirteen	years.	Stanley	is	one	of	the	rich	guys	I	play	poker	with.	Stanley	is	a
Game	Facer.
Stanley	grew	up	in	the	small	town	of	Borger	in	west	Texas.	As	he	describes
it,	it’s	a	horrible	place.	What	made	his	adolescence	in	Borger	even	worse	is	that
his	was	the	only	Jewish	family.	When	asked,	“What	was	it	like	growing	up	as
the	only	Jewish	kid	in	Borger,	Texas?”	he	answers	with,	“It	really	wasn’t	a	bad
place	if	you	don’t	mind	your	senior	yearbook	being	signed,	‘Die	Kike.’”
I	hope	that	puts	an	exclamation	point	on	the	fact	that	he	really	grew	up	in
difficult	circumstances	compounded	by	daily	anti-Semitism.	West	Texas	in	the
1940s	and	’50s	filled	with	racial	slurs	every	day	was	damaging.	Stanley	grew	up
with	an	effort	to	prove	people	wrong.	He	worked	hard	in	high	school,	went	to
college,	then	continued	to	law	school	and	became	an	attorney.	He	turned	down
large	corporate	offers	by	major	oil	and	steel	
companies	because	he	thought	he
had	to	do	it	on	his	own.	He	wanted	to	prove	everyone	wrong.
He	made	the	choice	for	himself	by	going	into	business	for	himself.	
Stanley
Latman,	Attorney	at	Law
	was	the	sign	that	he	installed	on	his	office	door,	in
gold-leaf	lettering.	Stanley	slowly	built	a	practice,	but	he	hated	it.	I’ve	never	met
a	practicing	lawyer	who’s	actually	happy	about	what	they	do,	and	Stanley	was
no	exception.	Practicing	law	became	a	fairly	unsatisfying	platform	for	him.	But
the	machine	of	life	needed	tokens,	so	he	did	what	most	of	us	do.	He	packed	up
his	dreams,	his	full	potential,	and	his	superpower,	and	he	just	did	what	he	had	to
do	to	pay	the	bills	and	support	his	family.
Stanley	built	a	law	practice	with	over	ten	thousand	divorces	and	hated	all	of
them.	Stanley	tells	this	story	of	how	his	three	children	always	knew	they	were
expected	to	attend	good	colleges.	But	there	was	a	catch.	He	told	his	children	that
he	would	pay	for	college	
and
	postgraduate	studies,	they	would	have	no	student
debt	at	all—unless	they	went	to	law	school.	If	they	did,	they’d	have	to	pay	their
own	way.	He	was	that	adamant	about	how	much	he	despised	practicing	law.
Stanley	saved	what	he	earned	because	he	was	scared	of	not	being	able	to	pay
it	all	off.	Not	just	his	kids’	tuition,	but	the	house,	the	bills,	and	the	retirement.	At
one	point,	his	family	hadn’t	gone	on	vacation	in	eight	years.	He	drove	a	Mazda.
All	his	lawyer	friends	in	their	Jaguars	would	make	fun	of	him	because	they	were
starting	to	earn	and	spend	while	he	earned	and	saved.	Stanley	was	in
Accumulation	Mode	and	he	was	stacking	and	racking	
cash.	Then	he	finally
decided	he	was	going	to	build	a	new	Lifestyle	by	Design.	He	knew	that	his	law
practice	was	going	to	earn	him	only	so	much	money	and	he	was	never	going	to
get	rich	from	it.	So	he	began	to	study,	to	conduct	his	research	and	analysis,	and
become	very	skilled	at	understanding	the	growth	patterns	of	the	city	of	Dallas.
He	leveraged	his	relationships	and	constantly	asked	people	questions	like,
“Where	is	the	population	growth	within	the	city	of	Dallas	moving?	Do	you	think
that	people	will	move	north	of	the	city	or	south	of	the	city?	Are	there	any	plans
to	widen	Interstate	75?	What	type	of	office	space	do	you	think	business	owners
will	want	in	the	next	ten	years?”
After	he	spent	a	few	years	in	this	research	and	analysis,	he	had	his	game
plan.	Executive	offices	would	be	needed	on	the	north	side	of	downtown	Dallas
along	the	I-75	highway.	He	went	on	the	hunt	for	a	building	that	he	could	move
his	small	law	practice	into,	renovate,	rent	out	executive	offices,	and	eventually
sell.	And	that	is	exactly	how	it	happened.	He	found	that	ideal	building,	bought	it,
and	rented	it	out	to	100	percent	occupancy	with	a	waiting	list	of	tenants	because
the	expansion	of	I-75	had	started.	And	when	the	real	estate	funds	came	calling,
Stanley	was	able	to	name	his	price	to	sell	the	building.	Everyone	wanted	a	piece
of	commercial	real	estate	on	I-75	and	he	was	happy	to	sell	his	building	to	the
highest	bidder.	Stanley,	after	getting	out	of	Broke,	staying	committed	to
Accumulation,	leveraging	up	his	relationships	for	information,	and	doing	his
research	and	analysis	to	reduce	the	risk	in	his	decision,	was	able	to	execute	on
his	plan	and	move	
himself	closer	to	the	finish	line	of	being	rich—and	he	was
able	to	soon	cross	that	finish	line.	Because	he	had	a	healthy	reserve	account,	he
was	able	to	use	it	to	buy	the	building.	He	was	able	to	use	this	money	to	get
closer	to	becoming	rich	because,	if	you	remember,	the	reserve	account	is	to	be
spent	only	on	investments	that	can	make	you	MORE	money.	Then	the	buyers
came	calling.	Stanley	sold	his	office	building	to	a	large	investment	company	out
of	New	York	who	made	him	an	offer	he	couldn’t	refuse.	It	was	a	huge	windfall
for	him.	He	played	his	hand	perfectly.
One	day,	at	fifty-five	years	old,	he	put	on	his	suit,	went	downstairs,	had	a
cup	of	coffee,	kissed	his	wife,	Lana,	on	the	cheek,	and	went	to	his	office.	He	said
hello	to	his	secretary	and	his	clerk	and	sat	down	at	his	desk	just	as	he’d	done	on
thousands	of	other	days.	His	phone	rang,	he	looked	at	it,	and	then	and	there
decided,
	I’m	not	going	to	answer	it.
He	said,	“I’m	done.	I’m	no	longer	going	to	practice	law.”
He	called	his	small	staff	in	and	said,	“It’s	over.	The	cases	we	have	will	all	be
worked	to	the	conclusion,	everyone	will	be	paid	until	then,	and	as	of	today,	we
are	no	longer	taking	any	new	business.”
He	went	home	that	afternoon,	and	his	wife	welcomed	him,	asking,	“How
was	your	day?”
He	said,	“It	was	incredible.	I	retired	today.	We	no	longer	have	to	live	a
lifestyle	that	is	not	by	our	design.”
Stanley	went	on	to	invest	his	money	in	the	stock	market.	He	became	an
extremely	sophisticated	stock	trader,	and	in	the	past	twenty	years,	his	net	income
has	quadrupled.	Today,	Stanley	
drives	and	buys	whatever	he	wants.	He	and	Lana
vacation	throughout	the	globe	with	an	affinity	for	exotic	cruises	on	the	Seabourn
Cruise	Lines,	the	Ritz-Carlton	of	cruises.	Stanley	retired	rich.	He	no	longer	has
to	go	work	to	earn	the	income	to	live	his	Lifestyle	by	Design.	He	lives	life	on	his
own	terms.	Stanley’s	story	isn’t	about	investing	money—it’s	about	investing	in
himself,	in	his	Lifestyle	by	Design.	I	want	the	same	for	you.	To	eventually	not
have	to	go	to	work	to	have	the	income	to	fuel	your	Lifestyle	by	Design—that	is
being	in	Rich.	The	reason	we	already	figured	out	your	Lifestyle	by	Design	is	so
you	can	understand	how	you	finish	rich.
ACTION	STEPS:	GET	INTO	ACCUMULATION	MODE
Cut	it	out.
	You’re	done	spending	on	anything	else	but	your	expenses.
Once	you’re	out	of	Broke,	feel	free	to	burn	up	the	money	in	your
operating	account,	but	only	because	you	put	the	exact	amount	you	need
every	month	in	there.
Two	bank	accounts,	two	banks.
	This	will	help	you	to	not	be	tempted
to	move	the	money	from	your	reserve	account	into	your	operating
account.	Do	not	touch	your	reserve	under	any	circumstance	until	you’re
ready	to	use	it	for	investing	to	make	more	money.
Get	to	$100K.
	It’s	going	to	take	a	while,	and	you	should	definitely	feel
proud	when	you	have	saved	the	milestones	along	
the	way,	but	life	and
Accumulation	really	start	at	$100,000—and	it’s	only	the	beginning.
You’re	only	in	Rich	when	you	have	enough	money	to	live	your	Lifestyle
by	Design	without	having	to	go	to	work	every	day	for	a	paycheck.
Keep	your	broke	mind-set.
	This	will	prevent	you	from	getting	too
comfortable.	Keep	the	heat	on.	You	are	not	“good.”
“I’m	in	Accumulation	Mode.”
	This	is	your	new	mantra	and	will
explain	to	your	family	and	friends	why	you’re	changing	your	spending
habits.