CHAPTER	6
Step	#3:	Surround	Yourself	with	Game
Facers
DON’T	GO	IT	ALONE
Most	successful	people	work	better	on	a	team	than	alone.	This	is	because	the
most	successful	people	tend	to	do	only	one	or	two	things	at	a	superpower	level
(we’ll	figure	out	what	your	superpower	is	in	the	next	chapter).	Look	at	the	yin
and	yang	of	some	of	the	most	successful	names	in	recent	decades:	Steve	Jobs
and	Steve	Wozniak—Apple.	Bill	Gates	and	Paul	Allen—Microsoft.	Larry	Page
and	Sergey	Brin—Google.	These	are	just	a	few	of	the	tag	teams	of	incredibly
successful	people	whose	talents	complement	each	other.	You	want	to	find	the
yang	to	your	yin.	Find	a	partner	you	can	trust,	or	a	guru	or	mentor.	The	problem
is,	you	may	not	always	have	that	option.	I	didn’t.	I	once	heard	Warren	Buffett
say,	“Show	me	your	hero	and	I	will	show	you	how	successful	you	will	be	in
life.”
When	you’re	figuring	out	whom	to	connect	with	or	ask	for	guidance,	ask
yourself:
Whom	do	I	admire?
Can	I	do	what	they	do?
Do	I	trust	them?	Are	they	the	right	person	to	give	me	insight	on	who	I	am
or	who	I	could	be?
You	wouldn’t	go	to	a	marriage	counselor	who	has	been	divorced	three
times,	and	yet	we	take	money	advice	from	people	who	have	no	money.	You
must	find	a	money	mentor—someone	who	has	already	reached	the	financial
level	that	you	want	and	then
	follow	their	lead.
	You	need	to	find	someone	you
can	emulate.	If	you	can’t	find	them	in	person,	find	them	in	tapes,	books,	and
videos.	Since	I	never	found	a	steady	mentor	or	business	partner,	I	turned	to
books,	tapes,	CDs,	and	videos—I	have	read,	watched,	and	listened	to	thousands
and	thousands	of	them.	That	translates	to	thousands	and	thousands	of	hours
searching	and	clawing	to	find	assistance.	Some	of	my	favorite	“virtual”	mentors
have	become	Tom	Hopkins	(sales),	Tom	Peters	(management),	and	most
recently	Grant	Cardone	(sales	training)	and	Gary	Vaynerchuk	(social	marketing).
Here	is	a	good	checklist	to	make	sure	you’re	talking	to	the	right	people:
1.	
They	must	have	something	you	want.
2.	
They	must	be	more	successful	than	you	(i.e.,	if	you	want	
marriage
advice,	ask	someone	who	has	been	married	for	fifty	years).
3.	
They	must	be	trustworthy.
4.	
They	can’t	have	chemical	addictions	of	any	kind—including	alcohol.
5.	
They	must	be	willing	to	help	you	with	little	in	return	for	them.
Simple,	right?	It	may	be	harder	than	you	think.	It	will	take	you	a	while	to
find	a	few	such	people	and	even	longer	to	find	one	who	can	be	a	mentor.	That’s
okay,	be	patient.	Ask	around.	Keep	looking.	You’ll	find	them.
ASPIRE	TO	YOUR	OWN	SUCCESS,	DON’T	WORRY	ABOUT
OTHERS’
Here’s	a	question	I’m	guessing	you’ve	asked	yourself	several	times:	“How	on
earth	does	THAT	guy	afford	that?”
I’ve	certainly	asked	myself	this	question	in	hundreds	of	situations.	In	my
younger	days,	I	asked	the	question	with	curiosity.	There’s	a	scene	in	the	movie
The	Pursuit	of	Happyness
	when	Will	Smith’s	character	walks	up	to	a	guy	pulling
up	in	a	Ferrari	and	he	asks,	“What	do	you	do	for	a	living?”	That	was	me,	all	the
time,	from	the	ages	of	twelve	to	twenty-four,	always	searching	for	guidance	on
what	career	path	I	should	take	to	earn	money.
I	knew	I	wanted	money,	so	I	chose	the	hotel	business	to	find	my	riches.	It
seemed	exciting	to	me—the	ability	to	run	a	hotel	
and	be	the	big	cheese.	People
would	travel	from	all	over	the	world	to	the	hotel	that	I	was	in	charge	of.	They
would	ask	for	the	general	manager	and	I	would	drop	in	to	greet	them	and	answer
any	questions	they	had.	I	would	be	the	big	boss	who	could	make	their	dream	trip
come	true.	I	pursued	this	passion	first	by	going	to	culinary	school	and	then
adjusting	my	degree	to	hotel	restaurant	management	at	Johnson	and	Wales
University	in	Providence,	Rhode	Island.	It	was	considered	then	and	still	today
one	of	the	best	schools	in	the	industry.	I	heard	some	people	say	it	was	right	up
there	with	Cornell.	Imagine	that:	me,	a	C	and	D	student	going	to	a	college	that
was	right	up	there	with	an	Ivy	League	school.
Once	I	got	there,	I	quickly	learned	that	Johnson	and	Wales	was	where	the
poor	kids	went	and	Cornell	was	where	the	rich	kids	went.	This	turned	out	to	be	a
good	fit	for	me	because	I	always	looked	at	myself	as	the	poor	kid	fighting
against	the	rich	kids.	This	mind-set	has	been	a	double-edged	sword,	and	if	I	am
100	percent	honest	with	myself,	it	hurt	me	financially.	The	chip	I	had	on	my
shoulder	against	the	rich	kept	me	from	asking	for	help,	networking	up,	and	in	my
deepest	thoughts	made	me	feel	inadequate.	Not	up	to	par.	Less	than	them.	I	felt
like	the	underdog,	the	outsider.	It	
has
	fueled	me	to	be	better	and	push	myself	my
entire	life,	and	is	perhaps	the	reason	that	I	have	achieved	a	level	of	financial
success	that	puts	me	in	the	top	1	percent	of	the	1	percent,	but	still—I	really
should	have	a	
lot
	more	money.	It’s	this	self-defeating	mind-set	that	made	me
believe	I	had	to	do	it	on	my	own,	my	way.	This	kind	of	thinking,	if	used
properly,	can	
create	success,	but	it	will	also	hold	you	back.	You	want	to
maximize	your	success,	and	in	order	to	do	that,	you	need	the	help	of	others.	And
in	order	to	ask	for	help,	you	first	have	to	believe	that	you	are	worthy.	You	may
not	have	the	money	of	more	successful	people,	but	everyone	starts	from
somewhere.	One	truth	I’ve	discovered	is	that	most	rich	people	want	to	help	other
people	get	rich.	You	just	have	to	believe	enough	in	yourself	to	have	the	guts	to
ask	for	the	help.	Don’t	wait	as	long	as	I	did.	
Believe	in	yourself	in	all	aspects	of
your	life	and	ask	for	advice	from	people	who	have	achieved	more	than	you.
You	will	be	surprised	how	many	of	them	will	give	you	the	answers	you	are
looking	for.
While	you	should	be	on	the	lookout	for	successful	people	who	can	mentor
and	advise	you,	don’t	fall	into	the	trap	of	comparing	yourself	to	others	and
wondering	what	they	think	of	you.	Here’s	a	more	useful	way	to	think	about	other
people	and	their	success:
1.	
It’s	your	life,	not	theirs.
	Stop	keeping	up	with	the	Joneses	and	start
keeping	up	with	the	(Insert	Your	Family	Name).	Your	opinion	of	others
is	a	waste	of	your	time	because	they	couldn’t	care	less.	The	wealthiest
people	I	know	don’t	care	what	you	think	of	them.	The	least	wealthy
people	I	know	care	a	lot	about	what	others	think.	Remove	your	judgment
of	others	and	increase	your	judgment	of	yourself.
2.	
Be	happy	for	the	success	of	others.
	When	others	succeed,	you	can
learn.	Spend	time	actually	supporting	the	success	of	others	by	asking
them	how	they	did	it.
3.	
Follow	the	money.
	Connect	with	people	who	have	what	you	want.
Ask	your	successful	friends	out	to	lunch.	Tell	them	that	you	are	in
Accumulation	Mode	and	that	you	want	more	money.
4.	
Attend	conferences	and	workshops.	
You	can	connect	with	and
learn	of	new	developments,	and	hear	exciting	ideas	from	the	leading
thinkers	and	practitioners	in	your	industry	by	attending	relevant
conferences,	workshops,	and	conventions.	Better	yet,	if	you’ve	built
some	expertise,	see	if	you	can	get	invited	to	be	a	speaker	yourself.
FOLLOW	OTHER	PEOPLE’S	MONEY
I	remember	when	I	started	to	move	up	the	food	chain	and	follow	the	money.	I
started	by	asking	the	limited	number	of	people	I	knew	with	money	if	they	would
help	me.	At	first,	I	was	bad	at	this	because	I	was	so	hung	up	on	my	own
insecurities	and	my	low	self-esteem.	I	believed	that	these	more	successful	people
would	see	that	I	wasn’t	as	successful	as	they	thought,	and	this	mind-set	held	me
back.	Remember	our	commitment	to	each	other	in	this	book:	We	are	moving
past	fake	and	embracing	reality.	We	are	now	awake	and	alive	and	in	control	of
our	money	situation	and	no	longer	held	back	by	our	past.
I	started	to	have	lunch	with	people—on	my	dime—and	I	would	literally	say,
“I’m	looking	to	network	with	highly	successful	individuals	who	can	help	me
make	more	money.”	People	were	happy	to	take	me	up	on	the	offer!	The	lunch
appointments	
and	opportunities	opened	me	up	to	an	entirely	new	world.	One	of
the	most	valuable	mentors	I	connected	with	was	Norm	Brodsky,	a	wealthy	serial
entrepreneur	whom	I	met	at	an	
Inc.	
magazine	program	called	Birthing	of	Giants.
BOG	is	an	entrepreneurial	incubator	of	sorts	that	accepts	only	sixty	applicants.	I
applied	in	1999	and	was	accepted.	The	program	lasted	three	years,	and	for	one
week	each	year,	I	would	fly	to	MIT	(yes,	
that
	MIT)	and	learn	from	the	best
minds	anywhere.	I	felt	out	of	place	and	I	was	afraid	and	confused	when	I	got
there.	The	other	fifty-nine	students	were	way	above	me	at	that	time.	They’d
accomplished	incredible	things,	and	it	showed	in	their	confidence	and	swagger.
Meanwhile,	it	was	1999,	and	my	business	was	only	four	years	old.	I	was	newly
married	to	my	sweetie,	Rokki,	and	I	didn’t	have	a	pot	to	piss	in.	I	remember
putting	the	$2,000	fee	and	flight	on	my	credit	card	because	I	didn’t	have	the	cash
in	my	personal	or	company	bank	account.	I	don’t	regret	spending	the	money,	but
I	regret	not	making	the	best	use	of	my	time	there.	If	I	could	do	it	all	again,	the
first	thing	I	would	have	said	when	we	went	around	the	room	doing	introductions
would	have	been,	“I	don’t	have	a	clue	why	I’m	here.	I	have	no	idea	who	read	or
didn’t	read	my	admission	application,	but	you	screwed	up	and	gave	my	seat	to
the	wrong	person	.	.	.	
me
!	I’m	totally	outclassed	and	in	over	my	head.	But	I’m
hungry	and	gritty	and	honored	to	be	here	and	learning	from	everyone.”	Instead,	I
stood	up	and	made	up	some	BS	about	how	well	my	business	was	doing	and	that
we	were	going	to	take	over	the	equipment	financing	industry.	I	spent	most	of	my
time	there	trying	to	
impress	others	instead	of	just	learning.	I	could	have	learned
so	much	at	BOG,	but	wasted	the	opportunity,	and	put	very	little	of	what	I	did
learn	into	place	when	I	got	back,	which	must	have	cost	me	a	decade	of	my
success.
But	back	to	Norm.	Norm	was	one	of	the	speakers	at	BOG	when	I	attended.
He	was	raw	and	street-smart	(he	even	later	wrote	a	book	called	
Street	Smarts
)
and	I	loved	him	and	his	message.	He	was	all	about	common	sense	and	was	blue
collar,	which	resonated	with	me.	His	message	was	a	mixture	of	grit	and	hard
work,	but	also	of	intelligence.	He	had	a	good	commonsense	approach	to	his
decision	making,	but	because	he	was	a	CPA	by	trade,	he	combined	this	with	a
hard	analytical	look	at	the	numbers.	He	made	an	incredible	impact	on	me,	but
after	the	program	ended	in	2001,	we	lost	touch.
Fast-forward	thirteen	years	to	2014,	when	my	company	made	the	
Inc.
magazine	Top	500/5000	Fastest-Growing	Companies	in	America,	and	whom	did
I	see	on	the	speaker	list	at	the	awards	banquet	in	Phoenix?	You	guessed	it—
Norm.	I	may	have	missed	the	opportunity	to	connect	with	him	at	BOG,	when	I
was	young	and	foolish,	but	I	wasn’t	going	to	miss	another	chance.	I	knew	Norm
was	a	cigar	lover,	so	before	I	left	Dallas,	I	bought	him	a	$300	box	of	six	very
fancy	cigars	as	a	gift.	I	left	the	box	at	the	front	desk	for	him	and	they	delivered	it
to	his	room.	I	knew	he	would	love	it	and	maybe	he	would	remember	me	from
BOG	all	those	years	before.
When	I	saw	Norm	and	his	lovely	wife,	Elaine,	at	the	banquet,	I	went	up	to
them	and	reintroduced	myself.	It	was	clear	he	didn’t	
remember	me,	but	he	did
get	the	cigars.	It	got	me	Norm’s	attention	and	some	of	his	time.
“Norm,	I	need	your	help,”	I	told	him.	“I’ve	had	success	since	we	last	saw
“Norm,	I	need	your	help,”	I	told	him.	“I’ve	had	success	since	we	last	saw
each	other,	but	I	know	I’m	capable	of	more.	I’m	trying	to	move	up	the	food
chain	and	make	more	money.	I	want	to	improve	my	network.	Do	you	have	any
suggestions	for	me?”
He	said,	“Of	course.	Once	a	year	I	have	a	cigar	and	bourbon	night	at	my
home	in	New	York	City	for	twenty-five	people.	I	want	you	to	come	to	the	next
one.”
Boom.	Connection	made.
He	sent	me	the	invite	a	few	months	later	and	off	to	NYC	I	went.	At	that
party,	I	once	again	showed	my	honesty	and	humility	and	asked	people,	“Who	do
you	know	in	Dallas	that	I	should	meet?”	One	of	the	other	guests	said,	“You	have
to	meet	my	friend	Rick	Sapio.	He	is	a	Dallas	guy	and	I	will	connect	you.”
Boom.	Another	connection.
An	e-mail	introduction	was	made,	followed	up	by	lunch	and	subsequent
personal	visits,	and	Rick	and	I	have	since	become	great	friends.	He	has	helped
me	tremendously.	He	has	also	introduced	me	to	a	few	select	people,	and	as	a
result	I’m	now	an	investor	in	a	private	equity	fund	that	invests	in	high-tech
health	care	companies.	This	fund	might	turn	out	to	be	the	best	investment	I	have
ever	made	and	has	helped	me	make	more	money	
and
	more	connections.	Why?
Because	I	dropped	the	BS,	stopped	lying	to	myself	and	to	others,	and	started	to
get	honest	and	ask	for	help.	I’m	begging	you:	follow	my	lead	and	do	the	same	in
your	life.
Talk	to	people	with	proven	and	verifiable	success.	Ask	for	
advice.
Follow	their	lead.	Model	what	they	do	and	learn	from	them.
	Don’t	just	let
the	answers	to	your	questions	pass	you	by	and	certainly	don’t	be	phony	about
any	of	your	experiences.	Just	keep	asking	questions	and	take	action	on	the
answers.
LEARN	FROM	EXPERTS
QUESTION:	Why	is	it	that	every	top	athlete	has	a	coach,	but	most
businesspeople	don’t?
ANSWER:	
While	athletes	are	focused	on	developing	their	skills,	most
businesspeople	don’t	think	they	need	to,	and	so	they	never	make	it	out	of
mediocrity.	Whatever	your	line	of	work,	you	can	only	reach	the	pinnacle	of
your	career	if	you	focus	on	mastering	your	craft.	You	are	still,	sorry	to	say,
an	amateur.	Today,	experts	get	paid,	while	amateurs	get	crushed.
Developing	more	skills	in	business	is	
not
	something	you	can	do	without	if
you	want	to	reach	your	maximum	level	of	success.	When	the	chips	are
down,	it’s	your	skills,	your	mastery,	and	the	confidence	that	comes	from
that	mastery	that	give	you	the	grit	to	fight	another	day.	It’s	also	how	you
make	the	most	money.
You	need	to	put	in	the	time	and	effort	to	understand	every	aspect	of	how
business	works,	or	you	risk	getting	burned.	Understanding	business	in	today’s
world	means	more	than	just	owning	a	business—it	means	you	need	some	sort	of
expertise	in	everything	from	sales,	legal,	insurance,	licensing,	and	
accounting,	to
marketing,	social	media,	human	resources,	information	technology,	and	more.
Even	if	you	are	not	going	to	be	an	expert	in	everything,	you	can	borrow
knowledge	from	the	experts	who	are,	and	therefore	deliver	more	value	to	your
company	and	your	clients.
Whether	you’re	an	employee	or	an	employer,	you	need	to	learn
everything	you	can	about	everything	that	impacts	your	industry	and	how	to
make	the	industry	work	for	you
.
	And	while	you	need	to	rely	on	stellar
employees	or	coworkers	so	you	don’t	have	to	do	every	job	on	your	own,	that
does	not	mean	you	have	the	luxury	of	not	knowing	how	every	job	works.
You	increase	your	value	when	you	acquire	more	knowledge	(and	we’ll	talk
more	about	how	your	value	earns	you	more	money	in	chapter	8).	So,	for
example,	while	you	may	not	be	interested	in	what	the	IT	department	does	or	you
don’t	think	it	impacts	your	career	because	you	work	in	marketing,	if	you	know
more	about	how	IT	works	and	how	it	affects	your	marketing	efforts,	you	become
exponentially	more	valuable.	Ask	to	sit	in	on	the	IT	meeting,	take	the	IT
manager	to	lunch,	start	Googling	
How	does	IT	affect	marketing?
	I	promise	you,
one	of	the	easiest	ways	to	increase	your	value	within	your	company	is	to	spend
just	ten	minutes	a	day	talking	to	people	and	researching	the	areas	that	you	don’t
directly	control.
An	important	factor	here	is	not	to	become	bothersome.	Just	open	your	eyes
and	ears,	and	file	the	knowledge	away	for	a	later	date.	You	don’t	need	to	start
interfering	in	other	people’s	jobs	or	announcing	your	half-baked	ideas	on	how
they	could	do	it	
differently.	You	want	to	learn	how	it	all	works,	not	how	to	do	it
all,	and	you	want	to	be	humble	when	asking	for	information.
When	I	started	at	Hilton	Hotels	in	1991,	I	learned	this	the	hard	way.	I	was
the	rookie	in	the	sales	department	trying	to	make	a	name	for	himself.	I	was	a
hotshot	who,	at	twenty-two	years	old,	wanted	to	learn	it	all	and	would	come	in
hotshot	who,	at	twenty-two	years	old,	wanted	to	learn	it	all	and	would	come	in
earlier	than	everyone	and	stay	later.	I	would	come	in	on	Sundays	and	watch	how
the	restaurant	worked.	I	would	stay	late	and	talk	to	the	bellman	and	see	how	he
would	greet	guests	by	name	by	looking	at	their	luggage	tags.	I	would	work	out	in
the	hotel	gym	to	talk	to	the	health	club	manager	and	I	would	lean	on	the	front
desk	and	listen	to	how	the	conversation	went	when	a	guest	was	checking	in.	This
all	was	cool	to	me	and	I	quickly	got	noticed	as	a	good	guy,	as	a	hustler.
But	then	I	started	to	open	my	mouth.	I	would	say	to	the	bellman,	“Hey,	here
is	a	list	of	the	companies	I	work	with.	If	you	see	one	of	their	reps	check	in,	let
me	know.”	I	would	do	the	same	for	the	gym	manager	and	the	front	desk	clerk.
Then	one	day,	one	of	the	bellmen	said,	“Screw	you,	Manero.	You	are	not	my
boss.	Get	the	hell	out	of	my	way.”	Shortly	after	that,	the	front	desk	manager
asked	to	see	me	and	she	said,	“I	liked	you	at	first,	but	now	I	see	that	you	really
don’t	know	your	place.	You	don’t	tell	my	staff	anything.	Nothing.	
Zero
.	And	a
word	of	advice:	When	you	want	to	say	something?	You	should	go	back	to	your
little	cube	and	start	making	more	cold	calls.”	She	was	100	percent	right	and	I
never	forgot	it.	Even	now,	when	I	feel	myself	opening	my	mouth	and	speaking
when	it	doesn’t	belong,	I	get	my	ass	back	to	my	desk	and	play	to	my	strengths:
get	on	the	phone	and	start	making	money.
CREATE	A	GRITTY	TEAM	OF	ADVISORS
You’re	starting	to	recognize	the	kind	of	people	you	want	to	surround	yourself
with	and	take	advice	from.	Good,	because	you’re	going	to	need	them.
When	I	started	my	business	in	1995,	I	was	told	not	to	trust	anyone.	I	was
told	things	like,	“Only	one	hand	works	the	register,”	and	“Only	you	handle	the
books.”	It	was	due	to	this	poor	advice	and	thinking	that	I	didn’t	trust	anyone.	I
never	hired	a	great	accountant,	lawyer,	insurance	agent,	or	business	advisor.	I
thought	I	could,	and	should,	do	it	all	on	my	own.
WRONG.	Sure,	it	was	good	that	I	developed	my	skills	in	those	areas,	like
we	discussed	above,	but	it	wasn’t	good	that	I	was	missing	out	on	having	strong
advisors,	and	my	business	was	suffering	for	it.	I	needed	a	strong	team	of
advisors	to	support	me	and	my	business,	and	so	do	you.	These	people	are	on
your	team	to	make	you	better.	
They	work	for	you
	and	they	must	have	your	best
interests	in	mind.	Even	if	you	aren’t	in	business	for	yourself,	it’s	still	a	good	idea
to	get	a	team	of	advisors	together.	You	never	know	when	or	why	you	might	need
them.
Here	are	the	players	to	select	for	your	team:	an	accountant,	a	lawyer,	an
insurance	agent,	a	finance	partner,	and	a	mentor.
1.	
Accountant.
	Everyone	needs	this	person.	It	is	your	duty	to	pay	your
taxes,	but	not	a	penny	more	than	you	should.	You	need	a	good
accountant,	either	on	staff	or	at	an	outside	company,	to	help	manage	your
income,	expenses,	profits,	and	
taxes.	Find	a	good	accountant,	update
them	every	month,	and	keep	accurate	books.	Equally	important	is	that
your	accountant	makes	recommendations	for	you.	He	or	she	must	be	a
gritty,	out-of-the-box	thinker	if	they	are	going	to	help	you	maximize	your
profits.	I	want	everything	you	do	to	be	100	percent	aboveboard,	but	a
gritty	accountant	knows	how	to	deploy	strategies	that	can	help	you	drive
your	financial	success	into	the	proper	lower-tax	and	higher-profit	zone.
2.	
Insurance	agent.	
Your	insurance	agent	must	be	an	expert	in	your
industry	because	they	should	be	making	recommendations	to	protect	you.
Ask	about	types	of	general	liability,	product	liability,	life	insurance,
health	insurance,	downtime	coverage,	breakdown	coverage,	gap
insurance,	and	even	disability	insurance.	Make	sure	you	have	enough
coverage	so	that	your	assets	are	protected	in	case	of	disaster.	This	is	still
important	if	you’re	an	employee	to	make	sure	you’re	fully	covered
outside	of	what	your	company	might	offer.
3.	
Lawyer.	
You	don’t	need	a	nice	lawyer—you	need	a	tough,	nasty,	gritty
lawyer.	Your	lawyer	is	going	to	do	the	dirty	work	for	you	when	called
upon,	and	you	don’t	want	a	wimp.	You	need	someone	willing	to	be	tough
and	demanding.	Be	proactive	in	finding	the	right	lawyer.	Have	a	good
lawyer	lined	up,	and	build	a	relationship	with	them,	so	that	if	and	when
an	issue	arises,	you	can	call	them	and	they	will	already	know	you	and
your	situation.
4.	
Finance	partner.
	Build	a	relationship	with	your	banker	or	finance
partner	before	you	need	them.	You	want	your	finance	
partner,	if	needed,
to	issue	credit	and/or	advice	quickly.	You	need	to	prepare	for	this	in
advance.	A	finance	partner	can	be	your	banker	or	an	independent	finance
company.	Either	way,	you	need	them	to	understand	your	situation	and
offer	quality	recommendations	and	be	able	to	pull	the
	approved
	trigger
when	you	need	it	most.	This	is	still	a	good	idea	if	you’re	an	employee	in
case	a	side	opportunity	arises	that	you	need	to	act	fast	on.
5.	
Mentor.	
We	already	discussed	this,	but	I	want	to	stress	how	important	it
is.	You	need	to	find	someone	in	your	industry	who	has	accomplished
what	you	want	to	accomplish
.	Get	to	know	them	and	develop	a
relationship	with	them.	These	types	of	people	can	be	key	in	offering
guidance	and	industry-specific	support.	Additionally,	your	mentor	should
have	contacts	in	the	industry.	They	might	help	you	find	a	new	and	better
job	if	you’re	an	employee.	This	is	critical,	as	mentors	can	also	help	you
with	introductions	to	other	successful	people.
You	should	speak	with	all	the	members	of	your	team	once	a	quarter.
Whether	you	need	them	or	not,	make	a	call	to	them	every	few	months	and	give
them	a	status	update	to	keep	your	business	or	work	life	running	smoothly.
Keeping	a	few	trusted	advisors	will	put	you	in	a	good	place	if,	and	when,	you
need	help,	recommendations,	and	gritty	advice.
ACTION	STEPS:	CONNECT	WITH	GAME	FACERS
Make	a	list	of	Game	Facers	you	know.
	You	don’t	have	to	know
them	personally	yet,	but	make	a	list	of	people	whom	you	want	to	get
closer	to.
Make	the	call.
	Call	your	list	of	Game	Facers	and	set	up	ten-minute
appointments	with	them.	It	can	be	via	phone	or	in	person,	but	you	want
ten	minutes	of	their	time	to	ask	for	them	to	become	your	mentor.
Make	a	new	connection	today.
	Start	the	process	of	building	your
team	today.	Is	there	someone	you	look	up	to	or	admire	for	their	skills,
their	grit,	or	just	for	their	sheer	success?	Good.	Ask	them	for	the	name
and	number	of	their	attorney,	accountant,	insurance	agent,	and	banker.
Then	go	so	far	as	to	ask	them	if	you	can	take	them	to	lunch	once	a	quarter
for	mentoring	advice.