CHAPTER	7
Step	#4:	Skill	Up
GOING	DEEP	AND	NARROW
I	recently	returned	from	a	trip	to	Cuba.	I	was	fortunate	to	get	an	inside	view	as
Cuba	reforms	itself	in	the	post-Castro	regime.	Cuba	may	be	one	of	the	most
exciting	stories	of	the	next	decade.
Located	just	ninety	miles	off	the	coast	of	the	United	States,	it’s	like	a	time
warp	going	fifty	years	into	the	past.	Prior	to	the	1959	Castro	revolution,	Cuba
was	an	extremely	exciting	country.	In	fact,	in	the	late	1800s	and	early	1900s
(1870–1910),	Cuba	was	one	of	the	wealthiest	countries	on	the	planet,	primarily
because	of	sugarcane.	It’s	what	created	the	opulent	lifestyle	and	iconic	art	deco
architecture	that	fills	the	country.
When	you	look	at	Cuba	today,	you	see	that	opulence	in	despair,	waiting	to
be	rescued.	Although	Cuba	still	has	some	of	the	most	gorgeous	buildings	you’ve
ever	seen,	most	are	dilapidated	
and	falling	down.	For	entrepreneurs,	this	is	a
sight	to	behold.	Entrepreneurs	look	at	Cuba	like	a	lion	looks	at	raw	meat.
Somebody	has	to	take	advantage	of	the	opportunities	that	have	opened	up	there.
As	Americans,	we	see	the	incredible	upside.	Americans	think	everyone
wants	what	we	want.	But	I	met	with	Cuban	entrepreneurs	who	assured	me	that
this	was	not	the	case—they	don’t	want	the	American	lifestyle.	They	love	their
country,	their	culture—they	even	love	their	government.	What	they	really	want,
from	an	entrepreneurial	standpoint,	is	the	Internet.	They	want	to	build	their
Lifestyle	by	Design,	and	to	them,	unlimited	access	to	the	Internet	is	the	answer.
When	we	talked	about	how	Americans	use	the	Internet,	the	Cuban
entrepreneurs	laughed.	They	said,	“Americans	use	the	Internet	
wide	and	shallow.
We	want	to	use	the	Internet	
deep	and	narrow
.	We	want	to	learn	how	to	program
video	games,	how	to	master	the	art	of	app	building.	We	want	the	Internet	in
order	to	become	masters	of	our	own	destiny.”
We	can	all	learn	from	this	because	they’re	right.	We’re	busy	sharing	photos
We	can	all	learn	from	this	because	they’re	right.	We’re	busy	sharing	photos
and	watching	cat	videos,	and	Cubans	want	nothing	to	do	with	that;	it’s	wasteful
to	them.	Their	limited	access	to	the	Internet	focuses	them	to	make	the	most	of	it.
We	could	learn	a	lesson	from	the	Cubans	about	becoming	specialized.	We
have	become	a	society	of	
wide	and	shallow	
where	very	few	go	
deep	and	narrow
.
We	want	all	of	it	at	very	low	levels.	That’s	why	when	it	comes	to	money	we
never	really	make	enough	to	make	a	difference	in	net	worth.	If	you	want	to	make
more	money,	go	deep	and	narrow.	In	other	words,	find	a	niche.	Niches	are	hard
to	figure	out	because	we’re	afraid	that	if	we	pick	one	niche,	we	limit	ourselves	or
are	protecting	ourselves	from	making	a	wrong	decision.	But	not	picking	a	niche
is	the	wrong	decision.
WHY	YOU	NEED	TO	FIND	YOUR	NICHE
The	business	marketplace	today	is	cloudy	and	crowded.	For	example:	Got	an
idea	to	start	a	hamburger	joint	that	serves	cheap	food	fast?	Try	again.	Want	to
serve	gourmet	coffee	in	a	white	cup	with	a	logo	and	charge	$5	a	serving?	Good
luck.
Because	so	many	business	ideas	and	concepts	are	in	place	already,	you	need
to	work	hard	to	find	your	niche.	People	in	business	who	try	to	do	everything	for
everyone	don’t	make	it	anymore.	Only	deep	and	narrow	works	today.	You	need
to	have	a	niche	in	your	life	that	separates	you	from	the	competition.	Once	you’ve
found	your	niche,	you	need	to	market	yourself	as	the	expert	in	the	niche	so	you
can	be	noticed.
When	I	started	my	first	business,	I	knew	that	there	was	money	in	the
equipment	finance	industry.	I	realized	very	early	on	that	large	banks	and	finance
companies	loved	financing	new	commercial	fleet	vehicles.	At	the	time,	I	didn’t
understand	the	concept	of	finding	my	own	niche,	so	I	created	my	first	company,
Commercial	Fleet	Financing,	Inc.	(CFF),	to	focus	on	financing	
new	
commercial
fleet	vehicles.	I	was	up	against	huge,	publicly	traded	companies,	and	I	didn’t
have	a	snowball’s	chance	in	hell.
After	a	few	years	of	failing	to	gain	traction	and	growth,	I	realized	I	needed
to	rethink	my	strategy	in	order	to	survive.	I	looked	at	my	happiest	clients,	and
my	most	profitable	deals,	and	realized	that	they	all	had	one	thing	in	common:
used	equipment
.	The	banks	thought	that	low-level	operators	bought	used	because
that	was	all	they	could	afford,	but	the	reality	was	that	my	best-credit	customers
bought	only	used	equipment.	Bingo.	Opportunity	just	created	itself.	What	the
good-credit	customers	realized	was	that	their	customers	didn’t	care	whether	the
equipment	was	new	and	shiny	or	from	a	few	years	ago.	Our	customers	knew
what	their	customers	wanted,	and	that	was	on-time	delivery	of	product.
FIND	A	PROBLEM	IN	YOUR	INDUSTRY	TO	SOLVE
Where	do	you	go	looking	for	your	niche?	The	best	way	to	distinguish	yourself
and	gain	traction	toward	success	is	to	help	to	
solve	a	problem	in	your	industry.
Once	you’ve	used	the	Litmus	Test	to	pick	the	platform	that	will	help	you	achieve
your	Lifestyle	by	Design,	you	need	to	identify	the	most	pressing	problems
affecting	that	industry.	Some	of	these	will	be	bigger	than	others,	but	they	all
have	opportunities	to	be	solved	by	someone,	and	that	someone	can	get	rich	doing
it.	The	idea	is	to	find	your	niche	by	identifying	the	right	problem	and	creating	a
solution	to	solve	it.
I	found	my	niche	by	understanding	a	big	problem	in	the	transportation
industry,	which	led	me	to	build	the	company	that	got	me	out	of	Broke	and	into
Rich.	Here’s	how	I	did	it.
Shortly	after	I	started	CFF,	the	price	of	new	equipment	
began	to	escalate,
but	the	economics	of	the	business	was	slow	to	catch	up.	Let’s	use	a	typical
example:	We	love	to	finance	tow	trucks.	Small	or	large,	we	love	them	all.	At
CFF,	we	believe	that	as	the	population	grows,	more	cars	(whether	gas	or	electric
or	self-driving)	will	hit	the	roads.	More	cars	will	create	more	breakdowns	and
accidents,	so	a	tow	truck	will	always	be	needed	in	the	marketplace.	Therefore,
the	financing	of	tow	trucks	will	always	be	needed.	We	observed	that	even	if	a
tow	truck	that	used	to	cost	$50,000	now	costs	$100,000,	the	towing	company
wouldn’t	be	able	to	double	their	prices.	So	we	solved	the	problem	by
specializing	in	used	equipment	to	allow	our	towing	customers	to	maintain	their
profitability	without	doubling	their	prices.	It	played	right	into	our	hands.	With	a
little	research	and	analysis	of	a	problem,	we	identified	and	occupied	a	new	niche
in	the	market.
When	it	became	clear	to	me	that	my	competition—large,	publicly	traded
banks—didn’t	want	to	finance	used	equipment,	in	that	moment,	my	narrow
niche	was	born.	I	decided	CFF	would	be	the	best	used-equipment	financing
company	on	the	planet.	Although	we	still	finance	new	equipment,	CFF	is	now
known	as	a	leader	in	used-equipment	financing.	Understanding	our	niche,	and
marketing	ourselves	as	the	expert	in	this	niche,	saved	my	business.	You	need	to
marketing	ourselves	as	the	expert	in	this	niche,	saved	my	business.	You	need	to
find	the	same	type	of	niche	for	your	business.
The	key	to	winning	business	in	a	niche	market	is	twofold:
1.	
Become	an	expert	in	your	niche.	
To	become	an	expert,	skill	up
(we’ll	get	into	this	in	the	next	chapter)	and	cover	all	of	your	
bases	in	your
chosen	niche.	This	may	require	additional	licenses,	bonds,	certifications,
ratings,	and	background	checks.	Customers	will	pay	for	expertise,	but
you	have	to	do	the	work	first,	because	they	can	see	a	phony	coming	from
a	mile	away.	It’s	worth	it	to	do	the	work,	because	as	an	expert,	you	can
charge	more	and	will	be	paid	more.	
Remember:	Amateurs	get	crushed
and	experts	get	paid.	Make	sure	you’re	choosing	a	niche	based	on
skills	you	have	or	can	attain.
2.	
Market	yourself	as	the	expert.
	It’s	not	enough	to	just	be	an	expert	in
your	niche.	You	need	to	own	it,	and	market	yourself	as	an	expert.
Everything	you	do,	from	your	business	cards,	e-mail	signature	lines,
media	materials,	brochures,	Web	sites,	social	media,	and	even	the	sign	on
your	door,	must	tell	the	marketplace	that	you	are	an	expert.	The	best
customers	are	not	looking	for	what	you	are	selling—they	are	looking	for
your	expertise.
To	find	your	niche,	ask	yourself	these	questions:
What’s	an	unsolved	problem	or	an	underserved	market	in	my	industry?
Why	do	my	best	customers	do	business	with	me?
What	are	my	competitors	
not
	doing	that	I	
can
	do?
Can	I	be	
better
	than	the	current	players?
Is	this	niche	a	flash	in	the	pan	or	a	long-term	career	or	business?
Pick	a	niche,	market	yourself	as	the	expert	in	this	niche,	and	continue	to
look	for	new	opportunities	within	the	niche.
MONEY	FOLLOWS	SKILLS	AND	SKILLS	ARE	YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY
So	let’s	say	you’ve	identified	a	problem	in	your	industry	that	you	want	to	solve,
and	have	decided	to	go	deep	and	narrow	on	it.	How	do	you	develop	the	skills	to
and	have	decided	to	go	deep	and	narrow	on	it.	How	do	you	develop	the	skills	to
do	it?	Contrary	to	popular	belief,	if	you	are	employed	by	a	company,	that
company	has	no	responsibility	to	develop	your	skills.	I’m	constantly	asked	by
new	people	who	come	to	apply	for	a	position	with	my	company,	“What	sort	of
training	do	you	offer?”
The	answer	is	always	the	same:	I’m	not	in	the	training	business.	I’m	in	the
equipment	financing	business.	My	job	is	not	to	hire	you	and	then	train	you.	My
job	is	to	hire	highly	skilled	equipment	financing	pros	with	an	existing	book	of
business	who	like	my	company	culture	and	my	compensation	plan	more	than
that	of	their	current	employer.	The	goal	is	to	provide	an	opportunity	that	allows
people	with	desire,	smarts,	and	ambition	to	thrive.	In	order	to	accomplish	this,	I
do	provide	extensive	sales	training	via	the	best	sales	training	program	on	the
planet,	Cardone	University,	and	a	video-based	sales	training	manual	on	how	my
business	and	industry	works.	Between	our	company	videos	and	our	YouTube
channel,	we	have	more	than	one	thousand	videos	that	cover	just	about	any
subject	in	my	industry	you	could	
imagine.	But	anyone	in	my	business	will	have
to	put	in	the	work.	I	don’t	pay	people	to	watch	videos,	read	books,	and	get
motivated—I	pay	people	to	produce.	If	you	get	hired,	you	get	all	the	tools	to
make	you	successful	(we	pay	tens	of	thousands	of	dollars	a	year	for	these	tools),
but	it	is	your	responsibility	to	use	them	and	skill	yourself	up.	As	my	friend	Brad
Lea,	founder	of	Lightspeed	VT,	says	best,	“I	can	save	you	from	drowning,	but
you	have	to	swim	to	me.”
Understand	that	your	employer	is	paying	you	to	bring	your	
value
	to	the
company—not	your	
lack
	of	skills—so	it’s	your	job,	not	your	employer’s,	to
make	sure	you	are	skilled	up.
Recently,	I	walked	by	Lucy,	one	of	the	receptionists	at	my	company,	leaning
back	in	her	chair,	looking	at	her	Facebook	account	when	I	walked	by.
I	asked	her,	“Are	you	busy?”
She	said,	“Not	right	now,	I’m	just	waiting	for	the	phone	to	ring.”	Wrong
answer.
I	stopped	what	I	was	doing	and	asked	her	to	come	to	my	office	for	a	little
talk.
Lucy	was	a	single	mother	who	needed	more.	More	time,	more	freedom,
more	skills,	and	damn	sure	more	money.	She	knew	it	and	so	did	I.	But	despite
knowing	this,	she	just	wasn’t	pushing	herself	to	bring	more	value.	She	and
everyone	around	her	knew	that	she	was	falling	behind,	at	work	and	financially,
but	she	couldn’t	find	a	way	to	take	action	and	make	a	change.	You	may	be	a
single	mom	who	needs	more	money,	and	you	know	it,	too.	Everyone	around	you
knows	it,	including	your	friends	and	
your	children.	Deep	down,	late	at	night,	you
know	you	have	more	to	give,	but	you	just	haven’t	made	the	connection	yet
between	working	and	adding	value.	Added	value	is	your	insurance	policy.	When
you	do	something	better	than	anyone	else	in	your	company	or	your	industry,	you
will	make	more	money.	But	if	you’re	waiting	for	someone	else	to	make	it
happen	for	you,	I	want	you	to	know	that	no	one	has	that	responsibility.	It’s	up	to
you.
If	you	have	a	job	in	which	you	have	downtime,	you	have	the	perfect
opportunity	to	skill	up.	Someone	else	is	paying	you	to	learn!	But	perhaps	you
think	someone	else	is	paying	you	for	your	hours	or	your	time,	and	therefore
you’re	just	milking	the	clock.	That’s	the	worst	possible	attitude	you	could	have.
It’s	the	complete	opposite	of	what	you	should	think.	You	should	be	thinking,
How	did	I	get	so	lucky	to	be	a	receptionist	who	has	enough	free	time	in	the	day
that	I	can	get	paid	to	develop	my	skills?
I	asked	Lucy	to	commit	to	me	that	she	would	use	any	downtime	she	had	to
skill	up.	She	agreed	and	followed	my	advice.	From	that	moment	on,	whenever
she	had	downtime,	I	would	see	her	walking	around	the	office	asking	people	if
she	could	shadow	them.	She	would	ask	people	in	various	departments,	“Could
you	show	me	how	you	do	that?”	and	our	team	would	happily	oblige.	She	quickly
came	to	understand	our	business	and	successfully	transferred	into	our	operations
department—at	a	pay	scale	50	percent	higher	than	that	of	a	receptionist.
Whether	you’re	a	receptionist	or	a	general	manager,	it’s	time	for	you	to	get
to	work	at	skilling	up.	You	know	what	you’re	good	at,	so	why	not	skill	up	and
get	to	the	next	level?	Sure,	it’s	good	to	
learn	about	every	aspect	of	your	business
and	industry,	but	only	to	help	you	become	better	at	your	job,	in	your	niche.
It’s	obvious	that	the	best	in	every	industry	make	the	most	money.	So	don’t
worry	about	what	you	suck	at.	Worry	about	maxing	out	your	superpower.
Working	on	improving	your	weaknesses	has	limited	value.	I	suggest	you	find
what	you	already	do	well,	and	focus	your	attention	on	turning	that	skill	into	your
superpower.	By	working	on	what	you’re	good	at,	you	have	the	potential	to
become	extraordinary.
Every	industry	is	a	great	industry	for	the	top	1	percent.	If	you’re	in	the	top	1
percent	of	all	garbagemen	in	the	world,	you’re	making	a	ton	of	cash.	Most
people	think	that	being	a	garbageman	is	a	bad	business,	but	they’re	wrong.
Being	in	the	top	1	percent	of	
any
	industry	is	how	to	get	paid.	Sure,	it	might	be
harder	to	get	to	the	top	1	percent	in	an	industry	that	is	saturated,	like	the	coffee
shop	business,	and	you	should	pick	a	platform	in	which	many	people	can	find
success,	but	the	best	of	the	best	is	always	going	to	dominate,	regardless.
The	problem	is	that	most	people	never	strive	to	get	to	the	top	1	percent.
They	may	start	in	the	bottom	99	percent	and	work	their	way	up	to	the	middle	50
percent.	This	is	where	the	bills	get	paid,	so	they	stop	skilling	up.	Ask	yourself:
Who	are	you	reading,	who	are	you	listening	to,	who	are	you	watching?
How	much	time	do	you	spend	on	learning,	as	opposed	to	on	mind-
numbing	activities?
The	higher	your	skill	level,	the	more	dramatically	your	money	situation	will
improve.
WHAT’S	YOUR	SUPERPOWER?
I	want	you	to	sit	down	with	the	five	Game	Facers	whose	opinion	you	value.
You’re	going	to	ask	them	(and	yourself—that’s	right,	write	down	your	own
answers)	big	questions	to	help	you	understand	what	you’re	good	at,	and
therefore	what	business	you	should	be	in.	Bonus	points	if	they	are	financially
where	you	want	to	be.	Allowing	yourself	to	be	open	to	feedback	from	your
friends,	family,	coworkers,	and	even	perfect	strangers	is	
vital
	to	understanding
where	you	are	currently.
In	each	of	these	conversations,	ask:
What	do	they	(and	you)	see	as	your	strengths	and	weaknesses?
What	kinds	of	skills	are	you	great	at?
What	industry	or	career	path	do	they	see	you	thriving	in?
What	kinds	of	questions	or	problems	would	they	come	to	you	with?
What	expertise	of	yours	do	they	value?
What	do	they	think	you	do	at	an	exceptional	level?
GETTING	BETTER	AT	YOUR	SUPERPOWER
It	has	never	been	easier	to	develop	your	skills.	You	can	learn	anything	you	want
for	free.	It’s	called	YouTube!	If	I	had	walked	by	my	receptionist	and	she’d	been
on	YouTube	watching	videos	about	truckers	so	she’d	have	something	to	talk	to
on	YouTube	watching	videos	about	truckers	so	she’d	have	something	to	talk	to
clients	about	when	they	call	on	the	phone,	I’d	applaud	her	effort	in	skilling	up!
Hell,	if	she	was	on	YouTube	learning	how	to	play	piano	I	would	have	been
excited	for	her!	I	would	have	said,	“Good	for	you,	and	shame	on	me	for	not
keeping	you	busier!”
So,	what	are	some	of	the	ways	you	can	skill	up?	Here	is	my	five-step
program:
1.	What	do	you	like?
Don’t	start	with	learning	things	that	you	don’t	like.	The	key	here	is	to	develop
the	desire	to	become	a	master	at	just	a	few	things	so	that	you	have	the
confidence	to	become	a	master	all	of	your	life,	and	you	won’t	stick	with
something	long	enough	to	achieve	mastery	unless	you	enjoy	it.	Lifelong	learners
lead	interesting	lives	and	develop	mastery	that	lets	them	make	the	most	money.
2.	What	value	can	you	bring	to	the	organization	at	all	times?
Ask	yourself:	What	is	your	company	
not
	doing	that	you	think	it	should	be	doing?
How	can	you	fill	your	time	with	activity	that	
helps	the	company	fill	in	this	gap?
This	puts	you	in	the	driver’s	seat.	If	you	become	the	in-house	expert	on	how	to
do	what	your	company	is	not	doing,	you	become	
much
	more	valuable,	and	then
you	can	leverage	that	value	for	a	pay	raise.
3.	No	white	space	on	your	calendar
If	your	workday	opens	with	white	space,	giving	you	lots	of	downtime,	you	need
to	fill	in	those	gaps	on	your	calendar	with	learning	opportunities.
Think	of	it	like	this:	If	you’re	feeling	sick	and	you	call	your	doctor	and	your
doctor	says,	“We	have	no	appointments	today.	Choose	whenever	you’d	like	to
come	in,”	then	you	should	probably	find	a	different	doctor.	When	you	fill	up
your	calendar	you	will	radically	change	your	income	situation	because	some	of
the	wealthiest	people	I	know	are	also	the	busiest	people	I	know.	I’m	not	talking
about	creating	busywork	for	yourself.	I’m	talking	about	making	sure	you	are
using	every	minute	of	every	day	to	get	closer	to	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.
Scheduling	meetings	with	mentors,	learning	new	skills,	selling	more	product,
Scheduling	meetings	with	mentors,	learning	new	skills,	selling	more	product,
even	spending	quiet	time	visualizing	your	success	and	Lifestyle	by	Design—it
all	goes	into	filling	up	your	calendar	and	it’s	all	important	to	helping	you	make
more	money.
As	Mark	Cuban	said,	“When	I	became	a	billionaire,	I	thought	I	would	have
more	free	time.	The	reality	is,	I’ve	never	been	busier.”
Whether	you	use	a	physical	calendar,	Google	calendar,	or	Outlook,	just	start
filling	in	those	blank	spaces.
4.	Every	skill	has	inherent	value
If	you	learn	to	play	piano,	that	can	make	you	better	at	business.	How?	Because
piano	or	guitar	or	flute	is	a	new	language.	And	learning	new	languages	opens	up
new	doors	in	your	brain	for	communication.	So,	if	you’re	in	business,	but	you
teach	yourself	how	to	play	piano,	I	bet	you’ll	be	a	better	communicator.	I	know
for	damn	sure	that	you’ll	be	more	interesting	at	the	next	Christmas	party—
among	all	your	other	responsibilities	you’ve	learned	to	play	piano	and	can	bust
out	some	Billy	Joel	“Piano	Man.”	Keep	learning	and	doing	the	things	you	love,
besides	learning	the	specific	skills	you	need	to	advance	at	work.	These	not	only
make	your	life	better,	but	you	never	know	how	they	may	help	you	at	your
current	job	and	open	up	opportunities	to	make	more	money.	And	it	also	makes
you	more	interesting,	which	brings	me	to	my	next	point	.	.	.
5.	Become	a	person	of	interest
Interesting	people	do	interesting	things.
—Jim	Rohn
I	love	this	quote	from	Jim	Rohn	because	it’s	100	percent	true.	Learn	to	do
something	that	makes	you	interesting.	Why?	You’ll	find	that	the	easiest	way	to
open	doors,	make	connections,	and	have	opportunities	come	to	you	is	to	be
interesting.	When	you’re	
introduced	to	people	you	want	to	meet,	you’ll	want	to
have	more	to	talk	about	than	how	business	is	going.
Being	a	person	of	interest	is	easy:
1.	
Do	stuff	that	is	interesting	to	you.
	Complete	a	triathlon.	Volunteer
to	coach	or	mentor	kids	in	your	community.	Ride	a	bike	across	the
country.	Play	Rachmaninoff’s	Concerto	no.	3	on	the	piano.	Write	a	book.
Do	whatever	floats	your	boat,	but	do	something	cool	and	interesting	and
different.
2.	
Have	a	bio.	
You	need	a	quick	one-paragraph	to	one-page	bio	of
yourself	that	highlights	your	unique	attributes.	Where	you	grew	up,	your
career	story,	your	superpower,	and	some	of	the	interesting	things	you
have	done	should	all	be	in	it.	If	you’re	having	trouble	writing	about
yourself,	just	get	someone	to	write	your	bio	for	you.	An	easy	place	to	get
this	done	is	www.fiverr.com.	For	$5–$10,	you	can	find	someone	who
will	write	it	for	you.	Just	send	them	the	bullet	points	of	what	makes	you
interesting	and	they	will	write	a	beautiful	bio	about	you.
3.	
Get	your	bio	seen	online.	
When	someone	types	your	name	into
Google,	they	need	to	find	something.	Something	about	YOU	must	pop
up,	and	the	more	they	can	find,	the	better.	It	has	never	been	easier	to
control	this	result.	The	search	engine	“bots”	(computer	programs
designed	to	find	relevant	search	results)—as	they	are	called	for	Google,
Bing,	Yahoo!,	etc.—crave	content,	so	give	it	to	them	and	put	your	best
foot	forward.	One	of	the	best	and	easiest	ways	to	make	this	happen	
is	by
simply	posting	your	bio	to	LinkedIn.	It	takes	one	minute.	In	short	order	it
will	be	found	by	search	engines	and	it	will	start	showing	up	anytime
someone	types	your	name	into	Google.
THE	POWER	OF	NIGHTS	AND	WEEKENDS
The	workday	is	for	you	to	be	doing	whatever	it	is	you	do	to	earn	a	living.	You
are	doing	what	you	have	to	do	to	keep	your	job,	or	if	you	are	in	business	for
yourself,	to	guide	and	support	your	people,	make	calls,	lead	meetings,	sell	your
product	or	service,	and	pay	your	bills.	Most	competent	people	can	get	through
this	part	just	fine.	What	separates	the	experts	from	the	amateurs	is	how	you
spend	your	nights	and	weekends.	While	your	pals	are	all	cutting	out	at	5	p.m.
and	binge-watching	Netflix,	you	need	to	be	doing	the	exact	opposite.	Nights	and
weekends	are	your	time	to	
pounce
.	It’s	your	time	to	get	ahead.	To	learn,	to
prepare,	and	to	make	more	money.	
Nights	and	weekends	are	for	massive	focus
—focus	that	separates	you	from	the	others.	It	is	the	time	for	you	to	do	what
others	
won’t
	do.
I	tell	new	salespeople	in	my	office	that	it	is	mathematically	impossible	for
them	to	work	as	many	Saturdays	and	Sundays	as	I	have	because	I	have	worked
so	many	weekends	over	the	past	twenty-two	years	that	even	if	they	worked
every	day	until	the	end	of	their	career,	they	still	wouldn’t	catch	up	to	me.	I
already	have	and	will	continue	to	work	more	Saturdays	and	Sundays.
I’m	interested	in	getting	ahead	in	life.	I	don’t	want	average	or	
normal	or
middle	of	the	road.	I	spent	way	too	much	of	my	life	thinking	that	way.	I	want
more,	and	I	want	the	same	for	you.	The	ability	to	put	in	the	extra	time	to	watch,
listen,	learn,	read,	and	think	is	the	reason	why	successful	people	are	successful.
People	who	put	in	the	minimum	effort	from	nine	to	five	don’t	get	ahead.	They	sit
in	the	parking	lot	for	one	last	smoke	and	open	the	door	to	the	office	with	no	time
to	spare.	They	leave	for	lunch	right	at	noon	and	return	just	before	1:00	p.m.	They
start	packing	up	their	desk	at	4:30	so	they	can	hit	the	exit	when	the	clock	strikes
5:00.	Fridays	are	the	start	of	the	weekend	for	them.	What	a	joke!	Don’t	be
surprised	when	doing	the	bare	minimum	gets	you	the	bare	minimum.
What	happens	on	nights	and	weekends	makes	the	difference	between	the
winners	and	the	losers	in	the	game	of	finances,	and	here’s	why.	My	customers
are	working	during	the	day,	so	they	don’t	want	to	take	a	sales	call	during	that
time.	However,	they	are	available	to	take	a	7:00	p.m.	sales	call.	They’ll	take	my
call	at	7:00	a.m.	or	9:00	a.m.	on	a	Saturday	or	8:30	a.m.	before	church	on	a
Sunday.	Early	mornings,	evenings,	and	weekends	are	not	just	important	in
communicating	with	a	client,	but	they’re	also	important	in	strategizing	your
individual	plan.
ACTION	STEPS:	MAKE	BETTER	USE	OF	YOUR	TIME
Late	nights	and	weekends	are	for	preparation	and	skilling	up.	As	I	said	before,	it
is	not	your	employer’s	responsibility	to	help	you	
skill	up.	If	you	are	lucky
enough	to	work	for	an	employer	who	pays	for	your	schooling	or	on-the-job
training,	congratulations.	Jump	on	that	benefit.	But	no	matter	who	pays	for	it,
you
	still	need	to	put	in	the	extra	time	to	skill	up.	Here	are	my	suggestions	on	how
to	use	late	nights	and	weekends	to	make	more	money:
1.	
Make	more	sales	calls.	
Some	people	feel	hesitant	about	making	calls
before	or	after	business	hours,	but	the	calls	you	make	during	these	off-
hours	can	be	the	most	effective.	Getting	on	the	phone	earlier	and	later
will	help	you	get	in	touch	with	that	prospect	who	is	too	busy	during	the
normal	day	to	speak	to	you.	Another	added	benefit	to	making	these	calls
outside	normal	working	hours	is	that	you	bypass	the	gatekeeper.	The
executive	assistant	who	has	been	blocking	you	from	the	CEO	isn’t	there
at	7:00	a.m.	or	7:00	p.m.	That	creates	opportunity	for	you	to	make	a
direct	impression	on	the	person	you	want	to	do	business	with.	Make	the
most	important	calls	when	your	chances	of	getting	through	cleanly	are
maximized.
2.	
Get	organized.
	We	all	spend	so	much	time	getting	caught	up	in	the
day-to-day	of	whatever	it	is	we	do.	Most	of	the	time	we	are	wrapped	up
in	reaction	mode,	answering	e-mails,	responding	to	crises,	and	putting	out
fires.	Late	nights	and	weekends	help	us	organize	our	activities	and	focus
on	doing	meaningful,	impactful	work,	which	is	what	ultimately	makes	us
more	money.
3.	
Make	connections.
	Invite	people	to	coffee	or	lunch	to	get	to	know
them	better.	Use	late	nights	and	weekends	as	a	time	to	
get	your	personal
brand	popping	on	social	media	and	connect	to	influencers	by	liking	and
sharing	their	content.
4.	
Get	better	at	your	superpower.	
This	bears	repeating	again	here.
Watch	videos,	read	books,	and	practice	to	increase	your	skills.	Who	is
already	great	at	what	you	can	be	great	at?	What	do	they	do?	How	do	they
do	it?	Are	there	tools	they	use	or	created	that	can	help	you?
5.	
Just	think.
	Our	days	tend	to	get	so	busy	that	they	don’t	leave	us	with
much	time	to	just	pull	back	and	think.	Use	late	nights	and	weekends	to
also	just	put	your	feet	up	and	dream.	These	quiet	moments	are	great
moments	for	this	type	of	thinking.	I’m	often	caught	up	in	running	my
business,	but	for	many	years	now,	I’ve	made	it	a	practice	to	take	five	to
ten	minutes	out	of	my	day	to	close	the	door	to	my	office,	sit	in	my	chair,
put	my	feet	up,	and	stare	at	the	ceiling.	That’s	my	quiet	time	and	it	lowers
my	blood	pressure.	This	is	usually	the	time	when	I’m	able	to	see	the
answer	to	a	problem	I’ve	been	trying	to	solve	instead	of	constantly
pushing	against	a	rock.	Sometimes	you	have	to	take	a	step	back	from	the
frantic	pace	of	your	day	to	be	able	to	see	the	forest	for	the	trees.
6.	
Fill	the	calendar.	
I	need	to	make	a	point	of	taking	time	out	of	my	day
to	think,	because	I	fill	the	rest	of	my	day	with	structured	and	productive
activities.	Chances	are	you	that	you	have	way	too	much	free	time	you
could	be	using	to	make	more	money.	If	you	actually	pull	out	your
calendar	and	fill	in	your	time	slots,	you	will	quickly	see	how	much	free
time	you	actually	have.	You	need	only	six	to	eight	hours	of	sleep	per
night.	That	leaves	sixteen	to	eighteen	hours	per	day	to	get	busy.	Not	just
a	little	busy,	I’m	talking	about	filling	the	calendar	up.
7.	
Set	your	goals	again	and	often.	
Goals	matter.	It’s	tough	to	set	goals
once	you’re	in	the	middle	of	a	busy	workday,	so	you	need	to	dedicate
time	outside	your	workday	to	focus	on	goal	setting.	Take	some	time	on
Sunday	night	to	set	your	goals	for	the	week.	Come	in	early	every
morning	before	work	to	set	your	daily	goals	before	the	e-mails	start
coming	in.	Write	your	goals	down	on	paper	and	keep	them	in	front	of
your	face	at	all	times.	Use	the	time	during	your	nights	and	weekends	to
stay	laser-focused	on	achieving	them.