CHAPTER	8
Step	#5:	Time	for	a	Raise:	How	to	Get	More
Money	from	Your	Current	Job
MORE	VALUE	EQUALS	A	RAISE
If	you’re	working	for	an	employer,	right	now,	you’re	either	more	valuable	to
your	company	than	you’re	getting	paid	for,	or	you	should	be	looking	to	bring
more	value	so	that	you	deserve	to	get	paid	more.	It’s	time	for	a	raise.	Even	if
you’ve	decided	that	you	want	to	quit	and	create	your	own	business	(which	we’ll
get	into	in	the	next	chapter),	you’re	not	going	to	(and	shouldn’t)	quit	your	job
cold	turkey.	So	it’s	still	important	to	learn	how	to	maximize	your	moneymaking
at	your	primary	job	until	you	can	get	things	going.
When	it	comes	to	creating	value,	you	have	an	advantage	over	your	boss	and
other	higher-ups.	You	are	the	one	on	the	front	lines,	and	the	front	lines	are	where
the	action	is.	You	know	the	problems	in	your	department.	You	see	them	before
your	boss	does,	and	often	more	clearly.	This	gives	you	an	opportunity	to	be	a
proactive	problem	solver.	Act	as	if	you	have	an	antenna	on	your	head,	constantly
looking	for	problems.	Key	point	here:	You	are	not	looking	for	problems	to
whine	about.	You	are	looking	for	problems	that	you	can	solve.	You	are	now	a
professional	problem	solver,	and	in	quick	order	you	will	start	to	earn	more
money.
Take	this	example	from	General	Electric	(GE).	In	the	1950s,	GE	created
Crotonville	on	a	gorgeous	mountaintop	about	an	hour’s	drive	north	of	New	York
City.	Crotonville	is	where	GE	brings	their	best	and	brightest	to	train	and	get
better.	It	has	long	been	considered	GE’s	“secret	weapon.”	During	one	of	the
working	sessions	at	Crotonville,	a	factory	worker	for	GE	was	in	the	audience.	As
management	presented	the	complex	problem	of	the	day,	all	the	top	brass	worked
back	and	forth	on	the	whiteboard.	They	dissected	the	problem	and	attempted	to
find	solutions	for	an	issue	within	one	of	their	manufacturing	plants,	but	couldn’t
find	solutions	for	an	issue	within	one	of	their	manufacturing	plants,	but	couldn’t
make	much	headway.	Finally,	near	the	end	of	the	session,	the	factory	worker
raised	his	hand	and	said,	“You	guys	don’t	know	what	you	are	talking	about.	I
deal	with	this	problem	every	day.	Let	me	show	you	how	to	fix	this.”	With	that,
he	went	to	the	whiteboard	and,	within	minutes,	he	outlined	the	solution	that	the
top	brass	couldn’t	figure	out.	He	knew	the	problem	backward	and	forward
because	he	had	to	deal	with	it	every	day.	Because	of	this,	he	also	knew	how	to
solve	the	problem	and	was	ready	with	the	solution.
You	have	that	same	power.	Don’t	wait	for	your	higher-ups	to	
fix	anything.
Screw	the	organizational	chart,	the	traditional	hierarchy.	The	quickest	way	to	get
noticed	in	your	organization	is	to	identify	and	solve	problems,	and	problem
solvers	always	get	paid	more	than	people	who	just	ignore	or	gripe	about	their
problems.
Be	on	the	lookout	for	unique	problems.	If	something	within	your	department
is	broken,	be	the	fixer.	Create	a	plan	to	solve	this	problem.	Create	a	presentation
that	outlines	this	problem,	the	reason	the	problem	should	be	solved,	and	the
expected	outcome	once	it	is	solved.	Then	ask	for	a	meeting	with	your	boss	to
present	your	findings	and	your	solution.	This	presentation	should	be	done	with
the	utmost	professionalism.	It	could	be	one	of	the	biggest	presentations	of	your
life,	so	don’t	take	it	lightly.	Do	your	research	and	analysis	and	knock	it	out	of	the
park.	Have	booklets,	or	PowerPoints,	or	graphs	or	testimonials	or	data,	whatever
you	need,	to	show	that	you	have	taken	the	time	to	figure	it	out.	Then	dress	for
success	and	present	it.	An	important	note	here:	Make	your	boss	look	good.	You
might	even	need	to	allow	your	boss	to	take	the	credit	for	it.	But	you	and	she	will
know	whose	idea	it	was,	and	you	can	leverage	that	in	the	very	near	future	when
you	ask	for	your	raise.
GETTING	RECOGNIZED	FOR	YOUR	WORTH
Whether	you’ve	decided	you’re	better	off	as	an	employee	or	employer	based	on
your	Lifestyle	by	Design,	the	foundational	principles	of	success	are	the	same
either	way:
1.	
You	need	to	prove	your	value	to	the	marketplace	at	all	times.
You	must	do	more	than	is	expected	of	you	from	either	your	boss	or	your
clients.	If	you	do	this	consistently,	your	income	will	grow,	and	if	you
don’t,	you	will	get	your	ass	handed	to	you.
2.	
You	must	sell	yourself.
	You	make	your	own	breaks.	Don’t	wait.	Push
for	opportunities	at	all	times.	You	might	think	that	this	will	rub	your	boss
the	wrong	way.	Too	bad.	You	are	in	charge	of	you,	and	self-promotion	is
important.	Hell,	if	you	don’t	promote	yourself,	why	would	you	expect
anyone	else	to	promote	you?	Feel	good	about	yourself,	and	sell	the	hell
out	of	yourself	every	chance	you	get.	The	squeaky	wheel	does	get	the
grease.
3.	
Don’t	assume	.	.	.	ask.
	Never	make	the	assumption	that	your	boss	or
your	clients	know	what	you	want—they	don’t.	You	know	what	they
want?	What	THEY	want!	Not	what	you	want!	They	are	not	thinking	of
you.	They	are	thinking	of	themselves.	So,	don’t	assume	that	your	raise	or
that	new	batch	of	business	will	come	to	you	from	them.	You	must	ask	for
it	and	you	must	ask	for	it	often.
4.	
Be	ready	or	don’t	ask.
	Are	you	ready	for	the	next	level	or	are	you	just
a	pain	in	my	neck?	If	you	come	to	me	for	a	raise,	you	better	be	prepared.
Have	your	act	together,	and	be	like	a	rocket	ship	ready	to	blast	off.	If	you
come	to	me	dressed	sloppily,	without	a	presentation	that	includes	data
and	support	of	your	request,	you	will	not	get	what	you	want.	Getting	to
the	next	level	financially	requires	you	to	play	at	an	entirely	new	level.
GET	PAID	TODAY
My	inability	to	understand	how	to	value	my	services,	communicate	my	value,
and	actually	move	the	needle	of	my	net	worth	plagued	me	during	the	early	years
of	my	business.	Don’t	let	it	happen	to	you.	
You	must	get	paid	for	your
services.	The	reality	is	that	very	rarely	will	people	
want
	to	pay	you	what	you
are	worth—that	is	just	a	fact	of	business.
	Once	again,	that	is	not	the	fault	of
the	marketplace.	It	is	YOUR	fault.	If	you	don’t	get	paid	properly,	that	is	your
issue,	just	as	it	was	mine.	But	you	can	quickly	fix	this	situation	and	consistently
get	paid	what	you	deserve	and	more	by	doing	these	things:
Research:
	Understand	the	market	and	the	pricing	structure	of
competitors.	You	might	also	need	to	do	a	cost/benefit	analysis	if	you’re
selling	a	physical	product	that	takes	a	certain	amount	of	money	and	time
to	create.	Now	you	have	an	idea	of	what	you	need	to	charge,	either	for
services	(like	hourly	or	per	project)	or	for	the	product.
Negotiate:
	If	you’re	in	a	situation	where	the	price	is	negotiable,	really
push	for	your	worth.	Speak	up—don’t	just	let	the	other	side	bully	you	and
get	what	they	want.	Know	going	in	what	your	minimum	is	and	what
you’re	willing	to	give	in	on.	Maybe	you’re	willing	to	take	a	lower	price	to
work	with	a	special	client	because	they’re	a	charity	or	can	create	other
opportunities	for	you—factor	in	all	of	that	when	you	negotiate.
Payment	terms:
	Make	sure	you	don’t	complete	a	deal	without	fully
understanding	the	payment	structure.	Do	you	get	paid	50	percent	up	front
and	50	percent	when	the	job	is	done?	Is	it	a	weekly	payment	schedule?
How	many	days	do	they	have	to	pay	you?	Will	they	be	penalized	if	they
pay	you	late?
Know	before	you	go:
	Make	sure	all	of	this	is	decided	before	you	start
work.	Do	the	research	and	analysis.	You	don’t	want	any	surprises	on
game	day!
The	point	is	to	recognize	this	epidemic	of	not	getting	paid	what	you’re	worth
and	to	
do	something	about	it.
PROVE	YOUR	VALUE
As	an	employer	of	people	within	a	$100	million–plus	business,	I	am	focused	on
growth	at	all	times.	Because	of	my	focus,	at	times	I	neglect	the	compensation	of
people	within	my	organization.	I	wish	it	was	different	and	that	I	was	alone	in
this,	but	it	is	not,	and	I	am	not.	At	the	end	of	the	day,	I’m	interested	in	building	a
great	company	that	is	indestructible	because	of	the	business	practices	we	have
and	the	amount	of	cash	we	have	stuffed	in	the	coffers.	That	is	my	job.	Your	job
is	to	make	me	notice	you.	It	is	also	to	make	sure	that	I	pay	you	what	you	are
worth.	That	is	not	my	job,	it	is	
yours
.
Here’s	what	I	mean:	I	hired	Jason,	a	twenty-two-year-old	kid	with	no
college	background	and	virtually	no	business	experience	at	all,	but	I	saw
something	within	him	during	the	interview	
process.	This	kid	had	a	great,	can-do
attitude.	He	wanted	a	shot,	someone	to	believe	in	him	and	show	him	the	ropes.
He	reminded	me	of	myself	in	a	way.	We	needed	someone	in	our	documentation
department,	so	I	offered	him	that	job.	The	pay	was	$30,000	and	he	could	take	it
or	leave	it.	He	took	it	and	never	negotiated	for	one	dollar	more.	This	turned	out
to	be	a	smart	move	on	his	part	because	I	thought	I	got	a	good	deal,	and	he
realized	that	he	could	only	go	up.
Jason	would	prepare	the	loan	documents	for	customers	to	sign	and	when
deal	flow	was	slow,	Jason	would	come	into	my	office	and	ask,	“What	is	the
biggest	problem	I	can	help	you	with	this	week,	boss?	Anything.	Throw	it	at	me
and	let	me	do	my	best	to	solve	it	for	you.”
At	first	I	would	give	him	small	tasks	that	I	couldn’t	care	less	about.
“Go	organize	the	storage	closet,”	I	would	say.
He	would	say,	with	an	ear-to-ear	smile,	“It	shall	be	done,	boss.”
And	sure	as	shit,	when	his	department	was	slow,	he	would	go	into	that
storage	closet	and	start	organizing,	cleaning,	and	tossing	the	junk.	He	would
spend	about	thirty	minutes	each	day	doing	this	side	job,	and	when	it	was	done,
he	swung	by	my	office	to	let	me	know	it	was	done	and	asked	me	to	inspect	it	for
my	approval.	His	work	was	good,	both	as	a	documentation	specialist	and	as
storage	room	organizer.	He	immediately	asked	for	another	project,	and	I	found
something	to	give	him.	He	would	always	have	an	extra	side	project	in	the	works
with	me,	something	
above	and	beyond	his	primary	job.	He	simply	took	care	of
things	that	needed	to	be	done	at	a	level	that	required	little	supervision	and	didn’t
distract	him	or	anyone	else	from	their	primary	job.
So	when	he	asked	for	a	raise,	it	was	a	no-brainer	for	both	of	us.	He	quickly
started	earning	another	couple	dollars	per	hour.	Peanuts	for	me,	but	to	him	it	was
a	significant	raise.	This	process	of	Jason	asking	to	“help	solve	my	problems”
happened	almost	weekly.	Soon	I	wasn’t	giving	him	any	direction.	He	was
identifying	and	solving	problems	I	didn’t	even	realize	existed.	He	was	taking	the
bull	by	the	horns	and	just	getting	it	done.
He	brought	me	a	new	version	of	our	company	newsletter,	which	was	so
good	I	approved	it	immediately.
He	arranged	for	me	to	be	interviewed	by	a	major	trade	magazine,	a	great
opportunity	to	promote	our	business.
He	started	promoting	our	financing	specials	on	all	of	our	social	media
platforms,	as	well	as	engaging	with	prospective	clients	who	wanted	to	buy
equipment,	which	I	found	truly	impressive.
It	was	all	well	done	and	it	exceeded	my	expectations.	Sure	as	hell,	sixty	days
later,	he	came	into	my	office	and	told	me	that	our	newsletter	and	the	social
media	effort	had	generated	eight	new	deals	for	us.	Our	average	deal	size	is
$50,000,	so	his	little	newsletter	project	had	generated	$400,000	worth	of	new
business	for	us.
business	for	us.
I	will	never	forget	what	he	said:	“What	a	great	idea	you	had,	boss.	This
newsletter	was	really	a	hit.	I’m	so	glad	you	gave	me	the	opportunity	to	carry	out
your	idea	and	generate	us	$400,000	worth	of	new	deals.”
This	kid	was	smooth.	So	smooth	that	he	got	another	raise.	After	about	six
months	with	us,	he	was	earning	$36,000	per	year,	which	was	a	$6,000—or	20
percent—raise	in	six	months,	and	all	because	he	asked	for	responsibility,	got	it,
did	the	work	above	expectations,	and	reminded	me	of	the	value	that	his	work
brought	to	the	company.
Shortly	after	the	success	of	his	newsletter,	he	took	over	our	social	media
efforts,	without	my	asking	him	to.	Next	thing	I	knew,	we	had	our	Twitter,
Facebook,	Instagram,	and	LinkedIn	popping.	I	bet	you	can	guess	what	happened
next	.	.	.	into	my	office	came	Jason,	with	reports	of	the	social	media	success
stories	we	had.	Before	his	one-year	anniversary,	Jason	was	earning	$48,000,
which	was	$18,000	over	his	starting	salary!	In	a	world	where	many	people	get	3
percent	annual	raises	from	their	employer,	Jason	had	earned	a	60	percent	raise
because	of	a	great	attitude,	asking	for	more	responsibility,	proving	that	he
brought	value	to	the	organization,	and	then	leveraging	it	by	asking	for	a	raise.
By	the	end	of	year	two,	he	had	continued	to	find	ways	to	provide	more	value
without	anyone	asking	him	to.	He	was	so	ahead	of	me	and	so	in	charge	of	his
movement	and	future	that	I	wasn’t	able	to	keep	up	with	him.	So	many
employees	move	slower	than	management,	just	following	orders	and	waiting	for
more	instruction,	but	not	Jason.	He	was	always	a	step	ahead,	creating	value	for
us	and	value	for	him	because	of	his	pace.	At	the	end	of	his	second	year,	he	had
taken	charge	of	our	marketing	efforts	and	was	earning	$65,000	per	year.	Think
about	that:	Within	two	
years,	he	had	earned	$35,000	more	than	when	he	started.
At	twenty-four,	with	no	college	degree	or	prior	business	experience,	he	was
earning	$65,000	and	earning	more	than	his	father.	If	you	do	the	math	on	this,	his
annual	raises	were	over	50	percent	EACH	YEAR!
Although	Jason’s	efforts	were	paying	for	themselves,	he	reached	his
compensation	cap—$65,000	was	the	top	of	the	pay	scale	for	his	position	within
my	company.	When	I	mentioned	this	to	him	during	his	last	raise	discussion,	he
said	he	understood.	Thirty	days	later,	he	put	in	his	resignation.	He	thanked	me
for	the	amazing	opportunity	I’d	provided	him,	but	he	wanted	to	continue	his
income-earning	path	and	he	had	accepted	a	marketing	job	at	another	company
for	$75,000	per	year.	Last	I	heard,	he	was	earning	$150,000	as	the	head	of
marketing	for	a	small	tech	company—all	this	before	he	turned	thirty.	That’s	the
power	of	attitude,	gratitude,	asking	for	responsibility,	creating	value,	exceeding
expectations,	and	leveraging	it	all	for	more	money.
expectations,	and	leveraging	it	all	for	more	money.
Jason	had	a	knack	for	making	sure	that	I	was	made	aware	of	the	value	he
brought	to	me	and	my	company.	It	was	like	clockwork	every	sixty	days:	he
would	request	a	meeting	with	me	to	discuss	his	compensation	and	leave	my
office	with	a	raise.	Why	give	it	to	him?	At	each	meeting	he	showed	me	the	value
he	was	bringing	to	my	company	and	proving	his	indisputable	worth	to	me.
It’s	not	that	hard	to	do	what	Jason	did,	and	dramatically	ramp	up	your
earning.	All	you	have	to	do	is	commit	now	to	putting	in	focus	and	effort	to
finding	new	value	inside	of	your	career.	
Stop	waiting	for	someone	to	tell	you	to
solve	problems	and	just	start	solving	them.	He	did	what	you	need	to	do:	you
need	to	understand	what	value	you	bring	to	the	organization,	bring	it	at	a	level
that	is	exceptional	(far	above	what	is	expected),	and	then	leverage	it	for	more
money.
One	last	point:	when	it	comes	to	producing	exceptional	value	.	.	.	keep	it	real
at	all	times.	I	get	such	a	kick	out	of	seeing	the	amount	of	BS	people	feed	their
brains.	So	many	of	us	compare	our	successes	downward,	looking	at	the	success
or	failure	of	someone	who	has	not	achieved	what	we	want	to	achieve	and	using
that	as	our	goal	line.	This	process	allows	us	to	feel	good	about	ourselves	because
we	did	better	than	a	loser.	It	is	the	exact	opposite	of	what	we	need	to	do.	Never
compare	yourself	down—always	compare	yourself	up.
MULTIPLY	YOUR	VALUE	WITH	SOCIAL	MEDIA
The	Internet	and	social	media	are	filled	with	posers,	phonies,	and	fakes,	but	that
is	not	you.	By	now	you	know	your	strengths;	you	have	taken	one	or	two	of	them
and	turned	it	into	a	superpower.	Now	you	have	the	makings	of	an	exceptional
and	interesting	personal	brand.	It’s	time	to	get	it	out	there.
If	you	don’t	have	a	personal	brand,	regardless	of	whether	you’re	the
employer	or	the	employee,	in	today’s	marketplace	you	are	costing	yourself,	your
family,	and	your	organization	money.	The	reason	is	that	a	personal	brand	helps
bring	value	to	your	company.	I	am	not	talking	about	just	having	and	running
Twitter	and	
Facebook	pages	because	you	feel	like	you	have	to.	I	am	talking
about	using	this	to	your	advantage	in	a	concrete	way.	Think	about	it	like	this:	If
you	solve	a	problem	for	your	boss,	or	develop	expertise	in	a	new	field,	you	only
create	value	for	your	boss	and	your	company.	But	if	you	then	also	share	your
solution	or	your	expertise	on	social	media,	you	create	value	for	hundreds,	maybe
thousands,	of	others.	This	helps	get	you	noticed	as	a	problem	solver	and	helps
you	move	up	and	make	more	money.	You	are	far	more	valuable	with	an
audience	because	an	audience	amplifies	your	value	and	travels	with	you,	and
you	can	end	up	getting	paid	more	because	of	that	audience.	I	fought	against	this
idea	for	way	too	long	in	my	career,	thinking	the	way	to	get	ahead	was	by	just
putting	my	head	down	and	quietly	doing	the	work.	Now	I	realize	how	much
money	it	cost	me.
At	my	company,	we	have	a	“CFF	Morning	Scrum”	every	day.	It	is	a	ten-
minute	all-staff	meeting	in	which	we	discuss	the	successes	of	the	previous	day
and	what	we	are	working	on	for	today.	We	often	play	a	quick	motivational	video
to	get	the	group	fired	up	as	well.	During	one	of	our	morning	scrums	in	2013,	I
made	a	now	infamous	statement	to	my	entire	company:	“Mark	my	words:	social
media	will	go	down	as	the	biggest	waste	of	time	in	the	history	of	business.”
Boy,	was	I	wrong.	I	looked	at	social	media	(and	everything	at	that	time)	in
terms	of	return	on	investment	(ROI),	completely	missing	the	two	most	important
reasons	of	why	social	media	is	so	important:
Number	1:	It’s	FREE.	
Facebook,	Twitter,	LinkedIn,	Snapchat,	Instagram,
and	YouTube	cost	nothing.	
Zero
.	In	the	old	days,	if	you	wanted	to	build	a
brand—to	be	seen	and	to	attract	and	build	an	audience—you	had	to	take	out
radio	ads,	television	commercials,	or	maybe	even	billboards	on	the	highway.
The	cost	was	immense	and	prohibitive	for	most	people	and	small
businesses.	Today,	you	can	create	an	account	on	any	of	these	platforms	in
about	two	minutes.
Number	2:	Your	story.
	Everyone	has	a	story	and	there	is	an	audience	for
every	story.	People	are	attracted	to	your	business	when	they	know	your
story.	The	marketplace	loves	stories.	The	rags-to-riches	story,	the	hero’s-
journey	story,	the	triumph-over-evil	story.	However	you	frame	your	own
story,	stories	are	interesting	and	valuable,	and	far	more	effective	than
mission	statements	or	empty	promises.	Your	clients,	your	coworkers,	and
your	industry	want	to	hear	and	see	your	story.	With	social	media,	it’s	never
been	easier	to	tell	it.
By	simply	being	active	on	social	media	and	sharing	your	experiences	of
work	and	your	industry,	you	become	a	well-known,	credible	expert	in	your
space.	Sure,	you’re	an	expert	already	because	you’ve	worked	at	becoming	the
best	in	your	niche,	but	does	anyone	know	that?	Not	if	you	don’t	start	sharing
your	expertise	with	an	audience.	Don’t	get	stuck	in	the	old	mentality,	that	social
is	about	personal	use	only.	Sure,	a	lot	of	people	have	made	money	
without	it,	but
they	are	part	of	the	old	guard.	Having	a	social	media	presence	is	becoming
increasingly	important	in	a	variety	of	industries,	if	not	essential.	Think	about
how	many	people	will	Google	you	before	pulling	the	trigger	on	doing	business
with	you.	Social	media	is	to	be	used	to	make	you	stand	out	as	an	expert	in	your
industry,	and	here’s	how	you	do	it:
1.	
Create	pages	on	all	social	media	platforms.
	
All
	platforms.	You
need	a	Facebook	page,	Twitter	page,	Instagram	page,	YouTube	page,
LinkedIn	page,	and	Snapchat	account.	Some	people	might	tell	you	to
focus	on	just	a	couple	platforms,	but	I	say	you	need	a	strong	presence	on
all	of	them.	Hey,	it’s	what	those	late	nights	and	weekends	are	for.	But	if
you	really	can’t	deal	with	all	those	platforms?	Then	focus	on	LinkedIn,
YouTube,	and	Facebook.
2.	
Like,	comment,	and	share	content.
	You	may	not	be	ready	to
generate	and	create	your	own	content,	and	that	is	okay	for	now.	You	will
eventually	need	to	create	content	to	fully	build	a	personal	brand,	but	to
get	started,	you	can	simply	like,	comment,	and	share	other	people’s
content.	Share	videos	that	relate	to	your	industry.	If	you	drive	a	truck	for
a	living,	post	cool	pictures	of	trucks.	Share	articles	that	relate	to	the
trucking	industry.	Use	other	people’s	content	to	help	position	you	as
someone	who	knows	the	industry.	But	a	word	of	caution:	As	someone
who	puts	out	a	ton	of	original	content,	nothing	pisses	me	off	more	than
when	someone	takes	my	content	and	passes	it	off	as	their	own.	Simply
give	credit	where	credit	is	due	and	link	back	
to	the	source,	because
nothing	makes	me	like	you	more	on	social	media	than	when	you	share
my	content	and	say	nice	things	about	me.	Do	the	same	for	influencers
within	your	industry.	This	helps	you	get	attention	from	them,	and	when
you	start	to	generate	your	own	content,	they	will	return	the	favor.
3.	
Hit	record.	
Recording	videos	are	the	best	way	to	create	content,	build
an	audience,	and	max	out	your	personal	brand.	You	might	not	believe	it,
but	everyone	is	interested	in	your	expertise,	so	hit	record.	You’ve	got	a
camera	right	on	your	phone.	Do	what	my	coach	and	friend	Hank	Norman
says	to	do:	“Show	me	you	doing	what	you	do	best.”
Let	me	give	you	a	real-life	example	of	how	your	personal	brand	can	make
you	more	valuable	and	then	make	you	more	money:	I	have	a	friend,	Victoria,	in
the	apartment	leasing	business.	Right	out	of	school,	she	started	working	the	front
office	of	a	large	apartment	complex	and	her	job	was	to	lease	out	one-,	two-,	or
three-bedroom	apartments.	Victoria	was	always	friendly	to	prospective	clients
and	continued	that	friendliness	online—she	created	social	media	pages	to	reach
out	online	to	anyone	who	came	into	her	building	and	she	began	to	create	a
following.	This	became	her	“tribe,”	as	author	Seth	Godin	calls	it.
She	started	to	make	videos,	taking	her	online	audience	on	a	tour	of	the	one-
bedroom	with	granite	countertops	and	wall-to-wall	carpet,	or	the	five-bedroom
penthouse	apartment	with	a	view	of	the	city	skyline.	She	would	take	her
audience	on	a	tour	of	the	pool	in	the	apartment	complex,	and	the	attached
clubhouse	
gym.	Victoria	drew	an	audience	because	she	wasn’t	just	showing
apartments—she	was	showing	a	lifestyle	people	could	visualize	themselves	in.
When	people	were	ready	to	move,	they	would	think	of	her	first.	Because	of
the	personal	brand	she’d	built,	people	often	felt	a	connection	to	Victoria	and
trusted	her	even	before	they	met	her.	People	didn’t	just	reach	out	to	her	more
often,	they	were	eager	to	close	a	deal	with	her	quickly.	In	this	way,	she	brought
value	to	her	apartment	complex	and	her	employer	and	put	more	money	in	her
pocket	along	the	way	with	more	commissions.	But	that’s	not	all.
Victoria	noticed	a	new	apartment	complex	being	built	right	around	the
corner.	She	saw	that	the	new	complex	was	better,	with	more	amenities,	and	she
quickly	realized	that	they	would	be	a	formidable	competitor	to	her	complex.	She
knew	they	would	need	leasing	agents,	so	she	interviewed	with	them	for	a	new
job.
During	that	interview,	Victoria	showed	the	owner	her	content	and	social
media	following,	along	with	all	her	expertise	in	the	apartment	leasing	industry.
The	owner	was	immediately	able	to	see	the	incredible	value	Victoria	brought	in
connecting	with	prospective	leasers	and	closing	deals	quickly,	and	hired	her	on
the	spot.	Victoria	is	now	one	of	the	top	leasing	agents	in	her	town.
Think	about	it:	Would	your	new	potential	employer	hire	someone	who	says
they’ll	do	a	good	job,	or	would	they	prefer	to	hire	someone	who	can	show	them
proof	of	it,	through	their	video	content	and	built-in	audience?	Of	course
employers	want	
the	candidate	with	a	personal	brand.	You	bring	automatic
customers	with	you	and	you	will	be	hired	over	someone	who	doesn’t	bring	in
business.	Bingo.	You	just	brought	more	value	than	the	next	applicant	and	you
can	charge	more	for	your	value.	Period,	end	of	story.
GET	A	RAISE	IN	A	WEEK
All	right,	let’s	get	real:	this	is	my	foolproof	method	for	how	to	get	a	raise	as	an
employee	within	one	week	of	doing	what	I	explain	in	this	section.	Think	about
the	power	in	that	statement:	
you
	are	going	to	get	yourself	a	raise.	But	first,	you
need	to	make	sure	you	deserve	one.
Because	you	are	in	charge,	you	are	also	now	the	Chief	Marketing	Officer	of
yourself.	This	is	a	phrase	my	friend	Bethany	Williams,	author	of	the	book	
3
Days	to	a	Raise
	uses	often.	Bethany	says—and	I	agree	fully—that	“people	need,
in	every	position,	within	every	company,	to	be	the	Chief	Marketing	Officer	of
them
!”	Time	to	become	the	CMO	of	you	to	get	a	raise—time	to	market	and	sell
yourself.	How?	Here	is	what	Bethany	and	I	suggest	(and	you’ve	got	a	week	to	do
it	all):
1.	
Know	your	value.	
Go	on	www.salary.com	or	www.glassdoor.com	and
see	what	the	market	is	paying	for	a	position	similar	to	the	one	you
currently	hold.	What	is	the	annual	salary	or	the	going	hourly	rate	being
paid	for	your	position?	Pull	the	salary	ranges	and	see	where	you	stand.
2.	
Build	ammo.
	You	need	to	keep	a	folder—either	digital	or	hard	copy—
of	everything	you	have	done	and	achieved.	Did	you	win	salesperson	of
the	month?	Great,	print	out	the	results	showing	you	at	the	top.	Have	your
customers	left	you	a	review	on	Google	or	Facebook	and	mentioned	your
name	specifically?	Great,	screenshot	it	and	put	it	in	your	folder.	Just	as
important	as	it	is	to	solve	problems	and	add	value,	you	need	to	be	sure
you’re	tracking	that	value.	Remember	Jason,	who	showed	me	that	he
generated	$400,000	in	sales	from	his	newsletter?	I	couldn’t	argue	with
those	hard	results.
3.	
Know	your	numbers.	
What	are	your	sales?	How	much	business	have
you
	generated?	How	much	have	you	saved	or	made	for	the	company
because	of	the	ideas	you	created	and	executed	on?	Have	your	information
ready	
before
	you	walk	into	your	boss’s	office.
4.	
Collect	testimonials.
	Your	best	customers	or	coworkers,	
if
	you	have
done	exceptional	work	and	produced	exceptional	results,	will	write	you	a
testimonial.	This	could	be	on	paper	or	on	Yelp,	Google,	or	Facebook.
Wherever	they	posted	it,	you	want	it	because	it	will	be	part	of	your
annual	report.	Which	brings	me	to	.	.	.
5.	
Create	an	annual	report.	
This	is	not	the	time	for	verbal-only
communication.	Nobody	on	Wall	Street	takes	the	CFO’s	word	for	the
results	of	their	company.	CFOs	create	an	annual	report	and	you	should,
too.	The	annual	report	is	simply	a	presentation	of	the	results	you’ve	had
over	the	past	year.	Create	your	annual	report	as	a	PowerPoint	or	handout.
It	should	
include	a	summary	of	your	results,	highlights	of	all	your
successes,	and	the	value	you	have	brought	to	the	company.	Don’t	go	light
here.	Put	your	best	foot	forward.
6.	
Know	how	much	you	want.	
Now	that	you	know	your	money	gap,
your	value,	what	your	position	pays	at	other	companies,	and	how	much
value	you	have	brought	to	your	employer,	you	need	to	know	how	much
to	ask	for.	
Do	not	leave	it	up	to	your	boss.
	And	don’t	buy	into	the	BS
from	human	resources	when	you	hear,	“We	can	only	give	3	percent
raises.”	Ask	for	how	much	you	want.
It	doesn’t	matter	if	you	are	the	employee	or	the	employer—you	need	to
view	yourself	as	your	own	business.	This	means	understanding	the	problem
you	solve,	understanding	the	value	you	bring	to	solving	the	problem,	and—
key	point—
understanding	that	regardless	of	the	position	you	hold,	you	must
connect	it	to	revenue	generation.
	Everyone,	in	every	organization,	is	their
own	salesperson.
MOVE	UP	OR	MOVE	OUT
What	if	you	followed	my	plan	and	you	
still
	don’t	get	a	raise?	You	will	need	to
go	back	and	reread	the	last	chapter,	skill	up,	and	bring	more	value	to	the
situation.	Once	you	do,	present	again.	If	you	do	this	and	still	do	not	get	a	raise,
then	do	what	my	friend	Andrea	did,	and	prepare	to	leave.	You	have	to	get	paid
your	value.
My	friend	Andrea	would	come	through	Dallas	a	few	times	each	year	for
work.	She	is	in	the	fashion	business,	and	four	times	per	year	Dallas	has	a	large
apparel	mart	in	which	designers	and	manufacturers	present	their	seasonal
products.	When	I	was	in	the	beginning	stages	of	starting	my	company,	I	was
straight	broke	all	the	time.	So	I	loved	when	Andrea	would	roll	through	Dallas
because	she	found	me	to	be	good	company	and	would	extend	an	invitation	to	me
when	she	was	entertaining	clients	on	her	corporate	account.	But	every	few
months,	as	she	came	to	present	her	products	at	the	mart,	she	was	always	with	a
new	company.
When	I	asked	her	why,	she	always	said	the	new	company	paid	her	more.
She	was	never	afraid	to	leave	her	current	employer	for	more	money	and	is	now	a
top	executive	for	a	New	York	City	fashion	company.	She	understood	her	value.
She	had	the	confidence	to	always	overdeliver	and	was	never	afraid	to	remind	her
superiors	of	the	quality	of	work	that	she	did.	Value	deserves	payment,	especially
for	those	who	have	the	guts	and	who	are	willing	to	ask	for	it.	Andrea,	every	six
months,	would	go	into	her	boss’s	office	and	remind	them	of	the	value	she
brought	to	the	company	and	ask	for	a	raise.	When	they	agreed	with	her	and	gave
her	a	raise,	she	stayed.	When	they	agreed	with	her	and	didn’t	give	her	a	raise,	for
whatever	the	reason—budget	issues,	whatever	the	hocus-pocus	the	company
created	for	not	paying	her	for	the	value	she	brought—she	left.	She	would	go	to
another	employer	and	get	paid	what	she	deserved.
If	you’re	growing	meteorically,	there	may	come	a	point	when	you	outgrow
your	company.	The	more	of	an	expert	you	are,	the	more	value	you	create,	and
you	might	find	the	rest	of	your	company	can’t	keep	up	with	you.
Each	and	every	time,	I	saw	Andrea	repeat	this	process:
Skill	up
Commit	to	being	the	best
Bring	value	far	above	the	job	description	and	expectations
Go	in	to	ask	the	boss	for	a	raise	every	few	months
Get	the	raise
Or	.	.	.
You	might	have	to	leave	your	job	if	you’re	not	getting	paid	your	value,	but
never	leave	your	job	without	having	another	one	lined	up.	Or,	better	yet,	create	a
job	for	yourself	and	be	your	own	Personal	ATM.	How?	That’s	what	we’ll	get
into	in	the	next	chapter.
ACTION	STEPS:	KNOW	YOUR	VALUE
Research	your	comparable	salary	today.
	Find	out	how	much	other
companies	are	paying	people	in	your	position.
How	are	you	valuable?
	Write	down	all	the	ways	in	which	you’ve
created	value	for	your	organization	in	the	past	year.
Create	your	annual	report.
	Start	to	make	copies	of	your	awards.
Graph	your	quarterly	results	in	Excel	and	print	them	
out.	Then	put	them
in	a	three-ring	binder	to	be	used	in	your	presentation	for	a	raise.
Update	your	LinkedIn	profile	today.
	Use	your	recent	awards	or
articles	you	have	written	to	make	your	profile	more	interesting	to	your
followers.