CHAPTER	9
Step	#6:	Create	Your	Personal	ATM
TURN	YOUR	HOBBY	INTO	YOUR	PERSONAL	ATM
You	are	your	own	ATM.	Not	your	employer,	or	your	industry	.	.	.	
you
	are	your
own	Personal	ATM.	The	key	is	to	learn	how	to	tap	into	it	so	that	it	spits	out	cash
whenever	you	need	it,	not	just	when	your	employer	decides	it’s	time	to	pay.	So,
how	do	you	get	that	extra	cash	to	live	your	Lifestyle	by	Design?
You	turn	your	hobby	into	your	Personal	ATM.
For	example,	here’s	what	my	friend	Sandy	did.	Sandy	was	a	teacher	in
Southern	California.	She	loved	being	a	teacher	and	it	was	part	of	her	Lifestyle	by
Design.	She	loved	to	help	kids	thrive	and	reach	their	potential—it’s	who	she	is.
Avid	fitness	buff,	triathlete,	and	extreme-sport	competitor,	she	made	her	life
about	fulfilling	her	personal	potential,	and	teaching	gave	her	that	outlet.	She	was
so	respected	that	most	of	her	students	would	come	
to	her	to	ask	for	advice	and
letters	of	recommendation	during	their	junior	and	senior	years	as	they	began	to
apply	for	college.	In	perfect	Sandy	fashion,	she	wanted	to	do	the	best	possible
job	and	she	put	her	heart	and	soul	into	each	and	every	kid	she	helped,	and	the
results	proved	it.	Her	students	started	to	get	into	the	top	colleges,	and	everyone
knew	that	the	consultation	and	road	map	she	provided	her	students	had	a	lot	to
do	with	it.	Still,	as	much	as	Sandy	loved	it,	her	job	was	taking	a	toll	on	her.
Because	she	wanted	to	deliver	so	much	value	at	all	times	and	do	such	a	good
job,	she	was	working	longer	hours	than	the	already	long	hours	of	a	teacher.	She
was	giving	many,	many	late	nights	and	weekends	to	help	her	students,	but	with
no	extra	pay.	This	was	no	big	deal	in	the	beginning,	but	once	she	and	her
husband	had	their	first	child,	it	all	changed.	A	new	baby	means	having	less	or	no
free	time.
So,	Sandy	backed	off	on	the	workload	because	her	new	obsession	was	her
baby	girl.	But	then	something	magical	happened	that	doesn’t	always	happen	in
business:	clients—in	this	case	Type	A	parents—came	calling.	These	were
business:	clients—in	this	case	Type	A	parents—came	calling.	These	were
parents	who	wanted	the	best	for	their	kids	and	would	stop	at	nothing	to	make	it
happen.	They	still	wanted	Sandy’s	help	when	it	came	to	their	children’s	college
applications	and	they	came	calling	with	cash	in	their	hands.
A	lightbulb	went	off	in	Sandy’s	head.	She	started	to	see	how	creating	a	side
business—a	side	hustle,	if	you	will—could	allow	her	to	charge	for	this
assistance,	earn	extra	money,	and	who	knows	.	.	.	maybe	turn	it	into	something
bigger.	And	as	you	predicted,	that	is	exactly	what	happened.	Sandy	began	to
charge	
thousands	of	dollars	for	her	college	admissions	counseling	services,	and
within	her	first	year,	she	realized	that	this	was	going	to	be	her	full-time	career.
Her	Lifestyle	by	Design	now	included	her	baby,	her	husband,	and	her	business.
She	makes	four	times	what	she	did	as	a	teacher	and	basically	works	hard	for	just
three	months	out	of	the	year,	still	loving	and	caring	for	her	baby	all	the	while.
Sandy	turned	her	passion	for	teaching	into	a	hugely	profitable	Personal	ATM,
which	led	to	a	Lifestyle	by	Design	that	fits	her	perfectly.
When	it	comes	to	expanding	your	earnings,	the	best	thing	for	you	to	do	is
take	everything	we’ve	talked	about	when	it	comes	to	building	your	superpower
and	finding	a	niche,	doing	the	research	and	analysis,	and	looking	for	the	best
option	to	create	your	own	side	hustle,	your	own	Personal	ATM.	It	doesn’t	have
to	turn	into	a	full-fledged	business	like	Sandy’s	(but	good	for	you	if	it	does),	but
if	you’ve	maximized	your	earning	potential	at	your	primary	job,	why	not	use
those	late	nights	and	weekends	to	earn	a	secondary	income	and	make	yourself	a
millionaire?
PERSISTENCE	WINS	IN	BUSINESS
There’s	no	turning	back	now.	We	walked	down	the	road	map	this	far,	and	now
it’s	go	time.	You	have	an	idea	and	you	are	now	going	to	execute	on	it	to	create
your	own	Personal	ATM.	It	might	turn	into	a	full-fledged	business	and	a	new
career	for	you,	or	maybe	it	will	just	be	your	side	hustle.	In	either	situation,	there
are	certain	things	that	must	happen	to	reduce	the	odds	of	
failure	that	plague	all
new	businesses.	Fifty	percent	of	all	new	businesses	close	in	the	first	year	and	90
percent	are	closed	by	year	five.	The	odds	are	tremendously	stacked	against	you
and	me,	if	we	are	like	most	people.	But	we	are	not.	My	business	has	stood	the
test	of	time—2018	will	be	our	twenty-third	year	in	business.	During	that	time,	I
have	never,	
not	once,
	missed	a	payroll	for	an	employee,	and	we	pay	every
Friday.	Every	single	Friday	since	1995,	I	have	scraped	together	enough	money
to	cover	every	single	payroll	check	that	my	company	has	ever	issued	except	one
—mine.	That’s	right:	On	countless	weeks,	my	employees	got	paid	and	I	didn’t.
But	to	me,	that	was	just	a	temporary	setback,	a	bump	in	the	road,	a	little	hiccup.
You	will	need	to	have	that	same	outlook	as	you	venture	out	and	build	your	own
Personal	ATM.	So,	let’s	make	sure	you	learn	from	me,	and	together	we	will
build	a	business	that	will	stand	the	test	of	time.
Your	mama	may	have	told	you	that	“the	most	important	thing	is	to	just
start.”	That	may	be	true	of	a	lot	of	things,	but	when	it	comes	to	running	a
business,	the	most	important	thing	is	to	stay	in	the	fight	long	after	the	start.	The
ability	to	have	strong	self-esteem,	bring	value	to	whatever	situation	you	are	in,
skill	up,	do	the	research	and	analysis,	execute,	and	then	
fight	like	hell,	
and	
keep
fighting	like	hell
	is	how	you	will	make	more	money.
My	company	has	lasted	for	twenty-two	years,	made	the	
Inc.	
magazine	Top
500/5000	Fastest-Growing	Companies	in	America	for	2014,	2015,	2016,	and
2017,	as	well	as	the	Dallas	100	Fastest-Growing	Companies	in	2014,	2015,	and
2016	because	we	focus	on	
always	executing	on	the	following	areas	each	and
every	day.	You	will	need	to	do	the	same	to	make	it.
COMPANY	CULTURE
Just	as	you’ve	identified	and	put	into	place	your	personal	Core	Values,	you	need
to	do	the	same	when	it	comes	to	running	a	business.	Your	company	culture
becomes	the	core	of	your	Personal	ATM,	especially	when	you	move	it	from	a
hobby	to	your	full-time	venture.	Company	culture	is	the	heartbeat	of	your
Personal	ATM.	It	doesn’t	matter	if	you	are	a	one-person	shop	or	you	grow	it	to
one	thousand	people.	Your	company	culture	is	the	single	most	important	thing
you	will	need	to	get	right.	Get	this	right—even	if	you	start	with	a	company	of
just	you,	or	are	keeping	it	that	way—and	you	will	have	ease	in	hiring,	firing,
managing,	growing,	and	motivating	yourself	and	your	staff.	If	you	don’t,	your
Personal	ATM	will	stop	spitting	out	tokens.	It	will	crumble,	and	I	don’t	want
that	to	happen	to	you.
The	key	questions	you	need	to	ask	and	answer	yourself	when	creating	your
company	culture	are:
1.	
How	do	you	want	this	business	to	finish?
	Yes,	before	you	start
your	Personal	ATM,	you	need	to	see	its	future.	Do	you	want	it	to	replace
your	career?	Do	you	want	it	to	eventually	go	public?	Do	you	want	to	sell
it?	Do	you	want	to	give	it	to	your	kids?	Or	do	you	just	want	it	to	throw
off	a	few	thousand	extra	bucks	a	month?
2.	
What	are	the	Core	Values	of	my	business?
	Much	as	you	did	for
yourself,	now	list	no	more	than	four	Core	Values	to	guide	your	company.
These	are	the	things	that	you	and	your	team	stand	for.	They	will	be	vital
in	your	long-term	success.	Here	are	the	four	Core	Values	at	my	company:
3.	
What	do	you	want	the	look	and	feel	of	the	business	to	be?
Literally,	down	to	the	paint	colors,	the	uniform	colors,	the	floors,	the	tile,
the	chairs,	and	the	computer	monitors.	Do	they	represent	you?	Are	you
inspired	by	bold	colors,	but	is	your	office	painted	white?	Think	of	it	all	so
that	
before
	you	open	the	doors	and	serve	the	first	customer,	you	have	it
planned	out.
4.	
What	are	you	willing	to	tolerate?
	What	type	of	behavior	will	you
accept	from	your	staff,	your	clients,	and	your	vendors?	Will	you	offer
different	compensation	plans?	Will	you	
allow	clients	to	pay	you	late?	All
of	it	matters.	And	definitely	don’t	play	games	with	cash	or	the	IRS.
Everything	is	traceable	and	can	eventually	come	back	to	bite	you.	Keep
your	accounting	straight.	It	will	provide	you	strength	and	credibility	in
the	marketplace	and	allow	you	to	sleep	a	lot	better	at	night.
5.	
What	are	you	going	to	charge	your	customers?
	You	already	did
your	research	and	analysis	before	you	started	your	Personal	ATM	and
you	know	there	is	a	market	for	it.	Now	set	your	prices	for	profitability.
How	much	profit?	I	will	tell	you,	at	a	bare	minimum,	that	you	need	to
operate	at	a	10	percent	net	profit	margin	
after	
you	pay	yourself.	If	you
can	make	more	than	10	percent,	go	for	it,	but	as	a	starting	point,	you	must
earn	10	percent	of	every	dollar	you	bring	in.	This	means	that	if	you
generate	$100,000	in	sales	(revenue),	you	need	to	have	$10,000	left	over
after
	you	pay	yourself.	Working	your	ass	off	for	no	profit	to	show	for	it
at	the	end	of	the	year	will	get	you	nowhere.	You	must	make	profits,
period.
YOU	CAN’T	GET	A	BUSINESS	OFF	THE	GROUND	IF	NO
ONE’S	HEARD	OF	YOU
Nobody	knows	you.	You	want	to	believe	that	you	have	some	secret	sauce	that
makes	what	you	do	valuable	to	the	marketplace,	but	until	you	promote	it,	your
potential	customers	are	never	going	to	find	you.	Promotion	can	come	in	various
forms,	but	I	can	
assure	you	that	you	will	need	to	do	more	of	it.	In	my	early	days
of	getting	CFF	off	the	ground,	I	took	promotion	straight	to	where	my	customers
were:	truck	stops.	I	had	a	sign	made	that	said,	
Truck	Financing	Here.
	The	sign
had	two	wooden	sticks	on	either	side	that	would	slide	into	the	rear	doorjambs	of
my	old	suburban.	I	would	get	up	early	on	Saturday	and	Sunday	mornings	and
drive	to	truck	stops	all	over	Dallas.	I	would	park,	open	up	the	rear	doors,	put	up
my	sign,	and	within	minutes,	truckers	would	come	up	to	me	to	talk	about
financing.	It	was	the	simplest	and	most	straightforward	form	of	promotion.
When	it	comes	to	getting	attention,	anything	goes.	You	need	to	use	every	chance
you	get	to	tell	people	about	your	Personal	ATM.	Do	the	same	on	your	social
media	pages.	They	are	to	be	used	to	promote	you,	your	company	brand,	and	your
personal	brand.	If	you’ve	spent	time	building	a	personal	brand,	now	is	the	time
to	use	it	to	promote	your	Personal	ATM.
FIND	WAYS	TO	OVERDELIVER	VALUE
Deliver	value	greater	than	your	customers’	expectations	in	all	situations.
Delivering	average	results	won’t	keep	you	in	the	market	for	long.	You	might	be
able	to	get	away	with	average,	middle-of-the-road	products	and/or	services	when
the	economy	is	good	and	everyone	has	money	and	is	willing	to	spend	it,	but
when	the	economy	turns	downward	(and	it	always	does),	only	
exceptional
	stays
in	business.	Always	give	more	than	your	customer	expects.
Let’s	take	a	real-life	example	from	my	personal	trainer,	Josh.	
Josh	has
worked	out	with	me	for	almost	two	years	now.	He	is	in	great	shape	and	knows
his	stuff,	but	like	you	and	me,	he	needs	more	money.	After	many	workouts
together,	he	finally	asked	me	for	some	financial	advice.	I	showed	him	how	he
could	raise	his	rates	if	he	found	ways	to	deliver	more	value	to	his	clients.	Josh
was	charging	$50	per	session	and	had	fifteen	weekly	clients	who	worked	out
with	him	an	average	of	three	sessions	each	week.	That	translates	to	$2,250	per
week,	or	$9,000	per	month.	In	Josh’s	case,	all	he	did	was	work	people	out.	No
meal	plans,	no	videos,	no	body	fat	index	testing,	no	nutritional	or	meal	prep
advice.	In	short,	he	offered	his	clients	limited	value.	He	delivered	his	workouts
by	showing	up	prepared	each	time,	but	he	didn’t	really	
overdeliver
.	You	can’t
increase	prices	without	increasing	value	and	overdelivering.
We	changed	that.	I	worked	with	him	to	create	value-added	programs	and
within	one	week	he	put	all	of	them	into	action.	Josh	signed	up	for	an	e-mail
marketing	program	(there	are	tons,	like	Constant	Contact	and	MailChimp),
loaded	in	his	clients’	e-mail	addresses,	and	boom:	he	had	a	platform	to	get	value-
added	messages	to	them	at	any	time.	He	created	content	via	a	simple	one-page
weekly	e-mail	newsletter	that	went	out	on	Monday	mornings	at	6:00	a.m.	In	the
newsletter,	he	offered	great	recipes	for	nutritious	and	easy-to-cook	meals.	He
made	nutritional	suggestions	along	with	vitamin	and	supplement
recommendations.	He	told	his	readers	about	local	farmers’	markets	in	the	area
and	what	to	buy	and	eat	that	was	in	season.	Lastly,	he	started	to	record	himself
doing	workouts	and	embedded	
them	into	the	newsletter	so	that	his	clients	could
do	them	on	their	off	days.	Get	the	picture?	He	started	adding	a	foundation	of
value-added	services	that	informed,	educated,	and	entertained	his	client	base.
Total	time	per	week?	Two	additional	hours.	The	result?	He	was	able	to	raise
his	rate	from	$50	per	session	to	$60	per	session.
Sure,	ten	bucks	may	not	seem	like	much,	but	he	did	end	up	losing	a	few
clients.	They	didn’t	see	the	value-add	of	the	newsletter	because	they	didn’t	want
value,	just	a	cheaper	price.	I	told	Josh	not	to	worry.	When	you	add	new	value,
you	need	to	test	your	client	base	and	the	value	you	bring	to	them.	In	Josh’s	case,
he	had	some	cheap	clients	
and	
he	was	not	bringing	enough	value	to	them,	so
they	left	him.	If	you	raise	prices	without	providing	enough	value	to	your	clients,
some	will	leave	you,	too.	
And	they	should!
	Value	is	the	key	in	today’s	crowded
and	cloudy	marketplace.	You	must	overdeliver	value	that	exceeds	the	price	you
charge.
Since	Josh	lost	some	clients,	he	had	to	get	to	selling	to	replace	them	and	find
a	few	more.	Only	now,	he	was	starting	with	a	new	price	($60)	and	a	new	product
offering.	He	wasn’t	just	any	old	trainer;	he	was	now	“Josh	the	Super	Trainer,”
who	cared	about	his	clients	more	than	anyone	else	and	proved	it	each	and	every
week	through	the	content	he	put	in	his	newsletter.	He	was	now	focused	on	your
muscles,	your	mind,	your	food	intake,	and	even	your	relationship.	He	started
asking	for	referrals	from	his	existing	clients	and	encouraged	them	to	forward	his
newsletter	to	their	family,	
friends,	and	coworkers.	I	also	had	him	talk	to	some	of
the	busiest	trainers	at	his	gym	and	ask	for	their	overflow,	the	clients	they	were
just	too	busy	to	take	on.	Within	two	weeks,	he	replaced	the	clients	who	dropped
out	when	he	raised	his	prices.	It	was	ridiculously	easy	to	replace	them	and	he
actually	added	three	more	regulars	to	his	client	base,	for	a	total	of	eighteen.
The	end	result?	Josh	now	has	eighteen	very	satisfied	clients	who	get	his	
very
informative	weekly	newsletter	and	can	watch	his	specific	workouts	on	their	off
days.	His	new	clients	are	all	paying	$60	per	session,	for	three	sessions	per	week,
which	equals	$12,960	per	month,	an	increase	of	$3,960	over	what	he	was
making	before.	By	overdelivering,	and	therefore	creating	more	value,	he	gave
himself	a	nice	fat	pay	raise	of	$47,520	per	year.
UNDERSTAND	SCALE
Without	question,	the	biggest	regret	I	have	in	my	business	career	is	that	I	didn’t
understand	the	importance	of	scale:	getting	big	quickly.	When	your	Personal
ATM	takes	off	and	starts	generating	income,	you	may	be	tempted	to	keep	it
small	so	that	it’s	comfortable	and	easy	to	manage.	Big	mistake.	Buying	into	BS
advice	on	why	staying	small	was	the	way	to	go	cost	me	a	decade	of	my	career
and	millions	of	dollars.	Yes,	I	said	
millions
	of	dollars.	I	simply	waited	too	long
to	get	big.	When	I	finally	built	a	business	plan	to	scale	my	business	up	to	$100
million	per	year,	everything	changed	for	me.	I	was	finally	able	to	make	up	for	all
of	the	years	
I	stayed	too	small.	If	having	a	big	Personal	ATM	matters	to	your
Lifestyle	by	Design,	it	can	happen.	I’m	living	proof	of	it.	
If	you	want	to	get	big,
start	thinking	about	how	you	can	best	scale	up	now.	Are	you	going	to	bring
on	more	people?	Become	known	in	your	niche?	Offer	more	products	or
services?
My	entire	argument	in	this	book	is	that	you	need	more	money	and	you	need
to	stay	in	Accumulation	until	you	get	to	Rich.	So,	when	your	Personal	ATM
starts	to	generate	the	profits,	you	need	to	keep	the	cash.	Hoard	it.	Don’t	spend	it.
Don’t	turn	the	thermostat	down.	Don’t	stop	feeding	your	reserve	account.
ACTION	STEPS:	BUILD	YOUR	BUSINESS	BY	DESIGN
Write	down	ideas	that	you	can	turn	into	your	Personal	ATM.	
Be
specific	and	detailed.	Leave	no	stone	unturned.	Build	it	out	before	you
start	it.
Bring	value.	
Write	down	three	things	you	do	that	are	valuable.	Now
write	down	next	to	them	three	things	you	could	do	to	make	them	even
more	valuable.	Boom.	You	now	have	nine	ways	to	deliver	even	more
value.
Core	Values,	take	two.	
Just	like	you	did	for	yourself,	write	down	your
Core	Values	that	you	want	to	be	part	of	your	business.	Put	the	Doorman
in	place	and	don’t	let	anything	get	in	the	way	of	them.
Business	by	design.
	Too	many	people	stumble	through	business	just
as	they	stumble	through	life,	going	where	the	current	takes	them.	Write
out	a	detailed	plan	of	what	you	want	your	business	to	look	like,	and	don’t
turn	back	until	you’ve	made	that	a	
reality.