CONCLUSION
Don’t	Stop	Moving	the	Needle
PICK	YOUR	NUMBER
I	have	done	the	hard	math	for	you.	I	have	offered	you	tools	and	strategies	that	I
have	used	to	close	my	financial	gap	and	make	up	for	lost	time.	But	in	order	to
execute,	you	will	need	to	do	one	more	thing:	Pick	your	number.	
The	reason
most	of	us	never	reach	financial	success	is	because	we	have	no	idea	what	our
number	is,	the	one	we	want	and	need	to	get	us	to	the	end,	to	the	ultimate
goal	of	how	much	money	we	want	and	need	over	our	lifetime,	and	beyond.
When	we	make	a	decision,	it	requires	us	to	commit	and	most	of	us	don’t	want	to
commit.	Why?	Because	we’re	scared	of	failing.	It’s	the	same	reason	we	don’t
like	to	set	goals:	because	it	sucks	when	we	don’t	meet	them.	That	mind-set	is
disastrous	when	it	comes	to	money.
How	much	money	do	you	really	want?	Is	it	$1	million?	$5	million?	$10
million?	$100	million?	Now	that	we	have	covered	so	much	more	ground
together,	I	want	you	to	reevaluate,	and	pick	the	number	that	will	allow	you	to
live	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.	Set	your	sights	on	getting	to	that	number,	commit
to	throwing	all	your	efforts	into	getting	there,	don’t	look	back,	and	don’t	slow
down	until	you	get	there.
Let	me	go	through	that	again	so	we	all	understand.	Look	at	everything	you
added	up	in	chapter	4	to	determine	the	annual	number	you	need	to	live	the	life
that	you	want,	and	multiply	it	by	the	number	of	years	you	want	to	live	in	that
fashion.	That’s	your	number.	Therefore,	if	you	want	to	live	a	Lifestyle	by	Design
that	requires	$100,000	per	year,	and	you	want	to	live	like	that	for	forty	years,
your	number	will	be	$4	million.	Don’t	be	scared	by	that	number.	Remember,	this
book	is	your	WAKE-UP	CALL	and	you	have	to	adjust	your	mind-set	to	think
MUCH	BIGGER	than	you	have	in	the	past.	You	have	to	think	like	a	Game
Facer.	If	you	can	expand	your	mind	to	believe	that	you’re	capable	of	achieving
that	number,	and	focus	your	grit	on	getting	there,	you	will	get	there.	The	goal	is
that	number,	and	focus	your	grit	on	getting	there,	you	will	get	there.	The	goal	is
to	earn	as	much	as	possible	for	as	long	as	possible.	That’s	how	you	get	into	Rich.
That’s	how	you	maintain	your	Rich	and	work	toward	Wealthy	for	future
generations,	so	that	your	kids	don’t	have	to	start	from	zero	like	you	and	I	had	to.
You	
must
	pick	your	number	and	build	the	plan	to	reach	it.	That	plan	to	reach
it	is	inside	the	pages	of	this	book,	but	here	is	your	recap:
1.	
Wake	up.	You	don’t	have	enough	money,	and	chances	are	you’re	in	a
state	of	False	Positive.
2.	
How	do	you	want	to	live?	Design	it	and	find	out	how	much	you	need	to
reach	it.
3.	
What	is	your	money	gap?
4.	
Evaluate	your	money	mind-set:	are	you	a	Blamer,	a	Dreamer,	or	a	Game
Facer?
5.	
Are	you	in	Broke,	in	Accumulation,	or	in	Rich?
6.	
Can	you	get	to	Rich	as	an	employee	or	do	you	need	to	become	an
employer?
7.	
Skill	up.
8.	
Earn	up.
9.	
Leverage	up.
10.	
Execute.
11.	
Pick	your	number.
The	key	is	to	skip	the	upgrades—today—so	you	can	enjoy	the	upgrades
in	the	future.	Stay	true	to	yourself;	only	now	you	know	yourself	better	than
you	did	before	this	book.
DON’T	STOP	MOVING	THE	NEEDLE	OF	NET	WORTH
Reevaluate	if	you	are	making	enough	money	for	the	kind	of	life	you	want	to	live
every	single	year.	I	reevaluate	myself	and	my	progress	toward	living	my
Lifestyle	by	Design	every	Christmas	
and	ask	myself	if	it’s	easier	to	buy	presents
this	year	than	last	year.	It	helps	me	think	about	whether	or	not	I’m	moving	the
needle.	You	have	to	create	a	scoreboard,	a	barometer,	a	metrics	test	that	proves
to	you	that	you	are	moving	the	needle	of	net	worth	at	levels	meaningful	enough
to	get	you	closer	to	the	finish	line.	I	use	Christmas	because	I	can	remember
purchasing	Christmas	presents	for	my	boys	at	the	dollar	store.	And	every	toy,
every	sock,	every	packet	of	underwear	or	undershirts	made	me	cringe	at	the	cost.
That’s	why	every	Christmas	is	a	point	of	reflection	for	me.	My	Christmas
reflection	is	the	scoreboard	that	I	now	use	to	determine	if	I	made	more	money
than	I	did	last	year.	Of	course,	you	can	use	your	budget,	your	bank	statements,
your	personal	financial	statement,	or	whatever	math	you	want	to	use.	But	I	know
deep	down,	even	after	I’ve	done	all	that	stuff	and	the	math	tells	me	that	I’m	far
better	off	this	Christmas	than	I	was	last	year,	that	if	I’m	not	emotionally	more
confident	in	my	purchasing	power	this	year	than	I	was	last	year,	then	I’m	not
moving	the	needle	of	my	net	worth.	
Every	quarter,	I	suggest	you	take	out
your	personal	financial	statement	and	redo	it.	This	will	help	you	stay
focused	on	moving	the	needle	of	net	worth	often.
We	are	close	to	the	end	now	and	we	have	covered	so	much	ground.	I’m	so
proud	of	you	for	getting	this	far	and	I	hope	two	things:
1.	
This	information	has	been	helpful.
	That	would	mean	so	much	to
me.	To	know	that	the	process	that	I	have	taken	to	
secure	the	financial
future	of	myself,	my	family,	my	employees,	my	clients,	and	my	vendors
was	helpful	to	you.	I’m	also	hopeful	that	it	won’t	take	you	as	long	as	it
took	me.	You	can	do	it	faster	if	you	use	these	strategies.	You	can	beat
me,	and	I	want	you	to.
2.	
You	are	special.
	I	know	I	yelled	at	you	a	lot,	but	it’s	only	because	I
knew	you	could	take	it.	You	would	have	never	read	this	far	if	you	were
not	ready	to	go	to	the	next	level,	and	the	next	level	is	attainable	for	you.
You	are	now	in	Game	Facer	territory.	Whatever	the	chains	of	your
upbringing,	the	advice	you	got	or	didn’t	get,	they’re	all	broken.	Now	let’s
get	you	rich.	Scaling	way	up	matters	more	than	ever.	Keep	dreaming	big,
keep	going	for	more	and	more	revenue.
ALL	OF	IT	MATTERS
My	brother-in-law	John’s	story	is	the	reason	for	this	book.	Bad	things	happen	to
good	people,	and	John	was	one	of	the	good	ones.	But	more	than	anything,	John’s
story	made	me	realize	two	things.	First,	those	bad	things—whether	they	affect
your	health,	career,	or	living	situation—don’t	affect	just	you,	they	impact
everyone	around	you.	Second,	a	lot	of	those	repercussions,	such	as	emotional
pain,	worries	about	the	future,	or	just	a	temporary	hit	to	your	ego,	are	solved	by
having	more	money.	It	may	seem	obvious	that	money	helps	solve	problems,	but
as	I	travel	and	speak	to	people,	I’m	constantly	amazed	by	how	few	of	us	do
anything	to	improve	our	money	situation.	If	you	take	nothing	more	from	this
book,	please	take	that	concept	with	you.	Money	matters	and	I,	you,	we	need
more	of	it.
You	made	it	through,	so	I	want	to	thank	you	and	share	how	the	story	of	my
brother-in-law,	John,	concluded.
I	was	conducting	our	standard	morning	scrum	meeting	at	CFF	when	my
phone	started	to	ring.	It	was	Rokki,	and	I	didn’t	answer	because	we	were	in	the
meeting.	But	when	Rokki	wants	to	be	heard,	she	makes	sure	she	gets	heard,	so
she	kept	calling.	I	picked	up	on	the	third	call	and	she	told	me	what	I	feared	was
coming.	John	had	just	passed	and	she	was	on	her	way	to	the	hospital.	I	told	my
team	to	carry	on	without	me,	and	dropped	everything	to	get	to	the	hospital,	too.
Almost	one	year	to	the	day	after	our	families	got	the	grim	news	of	John’s	cancer
diagnosis,	we	got	the	worst	news	any	family	ever	wants	to	hear.	John	died	at
9:22	a.m.
If	you	haven’t	been	with	a	person	and	their	family	minutes	after	their	death,
you	can’t	go	there	with	me;	but	if	you	have,	you	know	what	I	saw	and	heard.
John’s	wife,	Lori,	was	screaming	as	his	only	son,	John,	crawled	into	the	hospital
bed	with	his	father	and	refused	to	let	go.	His	daughter	Hannah	was	inconsolable,
and	so	was	my	Rokki.	My	mother-in-law,	Gigi,	was	gray	and	motionless.	Every
single	nurse	on	that	floor,	and	even	some	who	were	not	working	at	that	time,
raced	in	to	give	their	condolences.	He	had	won	them	over,	too.	They	cried	just
like	we	did	because	after	seeing	so	much	pain	on	that	cancer	floor	over	the	years,
they	knew	that	this	patient,	my	brother-in-law,	Rokki’s	brother,	Gigi’s	only	son,
Lori’s	high	school	sweetheart	and	husband,	and	
Hannah’s,	John’s,	Zoey’s,	and
Lizzie’s	father,	John	Bryan	Eibert,	was	special.	Amid	our	grief,	John	looked
peaceful.	His	fight	was	over	and	he	was	ready	to	meet	his	keeper.	But	the	rest	of
us	were	not	ready	to	let	him	go.	John	died	sooner	than	we	expected.	Just	two
weeks	before,	the	doctors	had	blasted	him	with	a	massive	chemo	cocktail	in	a
last-ditch	effort	to	kill	the	cancer.	We	all	knew	it	was	going	to	be	a	massive
dose,	and	the	doctors	said	if	it	didn’t	work,	he	would	have	three	to	six	months	to
live.	But	pneumonia	set	in	and	so	did	a	virus	in	his	bloodstream,	and	he	was
gone	within	two	weeks.
John’s	funeral	went	just	the	way	he	would	have	wanted	it.	Plenty	of	Guns	N’
Roses	played	in	the	background	as	pictures	of	his	life	played	on	the	big	screen.
People	came	from	everywhere.	It	was	a	little	like	the	ending	of	the	movie	
Big
Fish:
	people	who	were	just	characters	in	the	stories	he	told	us	all	appeared.
My	Rokki	says	she	sees	him	often	in	her	dreams.	It	makes	her	so	happy
when	she	dreams	about	him.	She	says	he	has	a	glow	about	him	and	there	is
always	a	bird	with	him.	We	all	still	feel	his	presence	in	our	lives.	On	numerous
occasions,	we	have	had	a	single	bird	appear	inside	our	house.	We	have	no	idea
how	it	gets	in.	No	door	or	window	is	open,	yet	we	find	a	bird	inside	our	house,
sitting	calmly	on	a	piece	of	furniture	until	we	open	the	door	and	let	it	out.
Sometimes	Rokki	won’t	open	the	door	for	a	while,	so	she	can	take	in	as	much	of
the	moment	as	she	can.	She	knows	it’s	John	checking	on	her	and	it	makes	her
happy.	I	have	flown	countless	miles	on	airplanes,	and	for	all	of	the	airports	I
have	been	in,	I	have	never	seen	a	bird	inside	an	airport	terminal;	
but	on	two
separate	occasions	when	I	was	traveling	with	Rokki	after	John	died,	a	bird	has
come	up	and	perched	itself	on	a	chair	close	to	her.	Try	to	tell	Rokki	that	the	bird
is	not	John?	She	will	kick	your	ass	and	I	will	be	right	there	with	her.
You	now	know	how	it	happened.	How	John’s	story	of	being	a	wonderful
son,	brother,	father,	and	husband	made	the	lives	of	everyone	around	him	better.
You	also	know	what	happens	when	you	don’t	pay	attention—close	attention—to
your	money	situation,	regardless	of	how	sweet	and	kind	you	are;	it	can	cause
pain	and	suffering	for	those	around	you	long	after	you	are	gone.
We	don’t	usually	have	what	we	think	we	have,	especially	when	it	comes	to
time.	When	it	comes	to	our	health,	our	finances,	or	our	careers,	we	put	off	fixing
our	problems,	because	we	think	we	have	the	time	to	“make	it	up.”	And	then,	one
day,	you	get	the	news	that	your	time	is	up.	Prepare	early.
Money	is	emotionless.	Money	doesn’t	care	that	you	are	nice	and	loving	and
caring.	Money	is	its	own	animal.	It	makes	no	guarantees	or	promises.	It	responds
when	you	give	it	attention	and	can	bite	you	in	the	ass	when	you	don’t.	If	you
don’t	make	money,	understand	it,	skill	up	to	earn	it,	save	it,	do	research	and
analysis	to	invest	and	protect	it,	it	will	not	be	there	for	you.	But	when	you	put	all
the	tools,	tips,	and	strategies	in	this	book	into	action,	and	approach	money	with
clarity	and	focus	and	effort,	you	will	realize	that	it	is	just	a	cog	in	the	wheel	of
your	life.	Once	you	master	it,	money	becomes	submissive	and	rolls	over	for	you
to	dominate	it.
STICK	TO	THE	ROAD	MAP
Congratulations—you’ve	made	it	to	the	end	of	this	book	and	are	well	on	your
Congratulations—you’ve	made	it	to	the	end	of	this	book	and	are	well	on	your
way	to	having	more	money.	Just	stick	to	the	road	map,	which	will	take	you	to
where	you	want	to	go.	If	you	want	to	get	rich,	you	have	to	be	tough.	Set	big,
unattainable	goals,	and	then	blow	past	them	as	you	achieve	more	than	you
dreamed	you	were	capable	of.	You	deserve	this.	You	are	worthy.	You	have	the
skills.	You	can	build	your	Lifestyle	by	Design.	You	can	make	up	the	gap	created
by	your	old	ways.	You’re	ready.	You	are	a	Game	Facer.	Drop	me	a	note	and
keep	me	informed	of	your	progress.	We	are	together	in	your	journey.	Nothing
would	make	me	happier	than	to	hear	your	story	of	how	your	success	turned	you
into	a	fellow	Game	Facer	and	that	you’ve	blown	past	me.	The	ball	is	in	your
court.	It	always	has	been;	you	just	needed	a	little	motivation	and	guidance.	I
hope	that	you	take	everything	we	have	covered	in	this	book	and	use	it	to	reach
each	and	every	goal	and	dream	you	and	your	family	deserve.
#staygritty
—Matt