male announcer: "In Touch,"
the teaching ministry of Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on "In Touch," "Grace
and Continuing Sin." Dr. Stanley: Every once in a
while, somebody will walk up to me that I do not know
and say, "Now, listen." And of course, I know what they
are referring to, because every once in a while I say that,
and I say it on purpose. So I want to say in the very
beginning of this message, "Now, listen." Because if you don't
listen carefully, you're gonna misunderstand. And what I want to share is so
very, very, very important and so encouraging, but you could
misunderstand, so I wanna say right up front, now, listen. How many times have you ever
been to the Lord, and you've said, "Now, Lord, I wanna ask
You to forgive me for this sin in my life, and I'm just
trusting that You're going to do that in Jesus's name"? And you ask Him to forgive
you, and so you walked away. Well, either the next day or the
same day or the next week, you came back with the same sin, you
said, "Lord, I know I'm back again with the same old thing,
and I'm asking You to forgive me again, and I'm trusting
that You will." Well, next day or next week you
came back with the same thing, and so you got down to pray, and
about time you started praying, somebody whispered in your ear,
and you know where it came from. And he said, "Are you gonna
tell Him the same thing again? You mean you're gonna
confess the same old sin? Do you think God's
listening to that? How many times do you think He's
gonna forgive you for the same old stuff?" And so Satan really sends you a
strong message that, after all, you've already asked Him to
forgive you for that two times, four times, or ten times. And I mean, after all, how much
patience do you think God has? I mean, how much grace is there? I mean, you're confessing the
same old stuff over and over and over again, therefore you're
just wasting your time, and so you respond in one of two ways. You either think, well,
oh, that's right. I mean, after all, God is so
patient, but I mean enough's enough, and so you either just
walk away and carry with you the guilt and the weight of your
sin, or you run to the cross, so to speak, and tell God, remind
Him, "Lord, here's what You said, I'm confessing, I'm
repenting of this sin again. You know I'm sincere, I mean
what I say, and I'm trusting You to forgive me on the basis of
what You promised, not on the basis of how I feel." And so all of us are living
either under the reign of the law or we're living under
the reign of grace. And we either understand what
forgiveness is all about, or we do not. So this is part of our series on
the messages on grace, and the title of this message is
"Grace and Continuing Sin." What about the grace of God and
those things that keep popping up in our life over and
over and over again? So I want you to turn, if you
will, to Romans chapter 5, and I want us to read the 20th and
21st verses and then chapter 6, the first two verses
of that chapter. All of us have had to deal with
that in our life, coming back to Him with the same thing over
and over and over again and wondering how long is God
going to put up with this? How long is He going to keep
forgiving us of the same sin? So in this 20th and 21st verses,
Paul says, "And the law came in that the transgression might
increase; but where sin increased, grace abounded all
the more, that, as sin reigned in death, even so grace might
reign through righteousness, to eternal life through
Jesus Christ our Lord. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin
that grace might increase? May it never be! How shall we
who died to sin still live in it?" Now, everybody who lives is
living under the reign of one of two powerful forces, under the
reign of sin, or under the reign of grace. And he says in this passage here
in the 20th verse, "The law came in that the transgression
might increase, that where sin increased, grace abounded
all the more." Then he says that as sin
reigned, then he says as grace reigned. Now, we talk about sin reigning,
we're talking about the force of sin, the power of sin dominating
and enslaving the light. Now, what happens is that when
sin enters, as it did then, sin grows, it doesn't just stay the
same, it grows in the heart, becoming stronger and stronger
and enslaving more and more. Not only does it enslave, but
it separates friends and it separates people from God. And this enslaving process
ultimately will reach its zenith, and that is it
will destroy that person. If a person is saved, it cannot
destroy their relationship to God, but it can destroy their
testimony, it can destroy their fellowship, it can destroy
their joy, their peace, their happiness, their
purpose for living. Sin is a destroyer, and it is
spread by simply human nature. That is, every single person
who's ever been born has been born with a sinful nature bent
away from God, and all of us are victims of that sin. We came into this world with a
bent away from God, but not only that, we have chosen
to sin against God. All of us, by our own choices,
have sinned against God over and over and over again. And you would think that after
being a Christian for 30 or 40 years, that you would
be better by now. But wouldn't it discourage you
if I told you that you were just as bad as you've ever been and
you were just as good as you're ever gonna be? Wouldn't that be discouraging? You'd say, "My goodness,
then why try?" Well, trying is not the issue,
and trying isn't the way. You see, because we all have
this old fleshly nature, our five senses, needs that we have,
now there is not a single verse in the scripture that even hints
at the idea that you and I are ever gonna be able to improve
this old fleshly nature. You can't improve it, it was
never meant to be improved. That's why Jesus came to live on
the inside of us and to express His life through us, because He
knew you and I could never improve the flesh. It's not improvable, and that's
why if Jesus Christ were taken out of your life and mine today,
we'd be just as bad as we've ever been, and we wouldn't ever
be any better than we are, because sin separates, grows,
enslaves, dominates, destroys, and apart from Christ, we are
absolutely, completely, and totally helpless and hopeless. What I want you to see in this
passage here, he says in verse 20, "And the law came in
that the transgression might increase." So what in the world
does that mean? Well, if you look in verse 13
and 14 of the same chapter. "For until the Law," and let's
look at that in terms of the Mosaic law or the moral law, or
let's just say for our benefit, the Ten Commandments. "For until the Law sin was in
the world; but the sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless death reigned
from Adam until Moses." Now, what he's saying is this,
that even before there was a written law of God, and let's
call that--let's think in terms of the Ten Commandments, before
God gave those laws, or that law, the Ten Commandments,
there was a law. It was an unwritten law. When Adam and Eve sinned, they
knew they had disobeyed God. And so from Adam, as he says, up
until Moses, though there was no Ten Commandments, there was law. It was written in
the heart of man. Go back, if you will, to the
second chapter of Romans and look, if you will,
in the 12th verse. So he says, "For all who have
sinned without the Law," even before there was the written
law, "will also perish without the Law, and all who have sinned
under the Law will be judged by the Law; for not the hearers of
the Law are just before God, but the doers of the law
will be justified. For when Gentiles," or
unbelievers, "who do not have the Law do instinctively the
things of the Law," because it's written in their heart, "these
not having the Law, are lot of themselves, in that
they show the works of the Law written in
their hearts, their conscience bearing
witness and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them." And so people what about these
folks who've never heard of Jesus? My friend, listen, they
violate the law of God. They disobey the law of God. They sin against
their own conscience. Every single person has one. God has placed it there, and
every person knows something's just absolutely wrong. What he's saying in this passage
here in Romans chapter 5 is this. He says, "And the Law came in,"
that is, the law came in for a very specific reason. God gave the law in order to
make man to know and to give him a knowledge of what sin is all
about, that sin isn't just against each other, that sin
is against holy God who will judge mankind. And not only that, he says that
sin came for the purpose of convicting us of our
disobedience and relating that sin and that disobedience
to Almighty God. Now, the law, the Ten
Commandments were not given in order to save us. That's not the first verse of
the scriptures that say that you're saved by keeping
the Ten Commandments. So my friend, if you're one of
those persons who says, "Well, I know I'm gonna be made
acceptable before God because I live by the Ten Commandments
and the Beatitudes." Well, I'm here to tell you
you're a sunk duck, brother, because first of all, you can't
live with the Ten Commandments, and you don't keep
all the Beatitudes. There's no way. The law was not given in order
to save us, the law was given to expose us. For example, this morning when
you got up and you began to dress, you looked in the mirror. Now, when you looked in the
mirror, what did the mirror do? The mirror didn't say anything. The mirror just did what? It just reflected your face. Now, so you said, "Well,
then, I wash my face." Well, did you take the mirror
off the wall and scrub the mirror on your face
to wash you clean? No. Because the purpose of a mirror
is not to make you clean, the purpose of a mirror
is to do what? Is to reflect the dirt and to
reflect what you look like. What does the law of God do? The law of God doesn't make me
clean, the law of God reflects the dirt, the filth, the sin,
the wickedness in our soul. God sent his law to expose our
filth, to expose our sinful, to convicts of it, to show us it is
against Almighty God, and this is what we're really like. The law says this is what you
really like, you're absolutely helpless and hopeless to do
anything, and so ultimately, the law was to drive men to Christ
to be saved by a provision that God provided for our salvation,
which He hinted at, which He began in the garden, the Bible
says, that He provided skins for Adam and Eve, which meant that
something had to die, blood had to be shed, and God in the very
beginning says, "I'm going by my grace to deal with
your sin problem." Listen to me, the only way to
deal with the sin problem is through the blood of Jesus. Listen carefully, now. Confession alone will not
deal with the sin problem. Repentance alone will not
deal with the sin problem. Apart from the grace of God,
apart from the shedding of the blood of Jesus Christ at
Calvary, apart from the cross, there is no dealing with sin. Now, listen carefully. Not even God, now watch this. You say, "Oh, no, don't tell me
there's something God can't do." I'm about to tell you
something he can't do. Not even God can wipe away your
guilt, erase the penalty of your sin simply because He wants to,
simply because He's good, simply because He's gracious, simply
because He's kind, simply because He's loving. Listen, no matter how much love
God has for you and me, He cannot erase the guilt of our
sin simply because He's a good, loving God. You say, "Well, now I
don't know why He cannot. Is He not sovereign?" Indeed He is. But the sovereignty of God does
not contradict the character of God. The character of God is He is
absolutely faithful, He is absolutely truthful. What did he say? The soul that sinneth,
it shall die. The wages of sin is death. And what did sin--what
does sin do? Sin reigns unto death. The ultimate of all sin is
death, spiritual death, physical death, death to
the things of God. And so God is the one
who laid down the law. The soul that sinneth,
it shall die. For God to come along and say,
"Well, yeah, I know that's what I said, and because I love you,
I'm just gonna wipe it out." He cannot do that
and remain God. And listen, if He violates one
single promise, if He crossed off one of His own laws, you and
I can back off and say, wait a minute, mm-mm-mm-mm, hold it. How do I know that He's going to
keep this promise if He broke this one? He doesn't have to break but one
promise, violate but one of His own principles to render
God no longer faithful. Therefore, the only way God
can forgive sin is for God to provide a payment for sin,
which is life for death. Sin brings forth death, and God
brings forth life to die in order to pay sin's debt. Listen to me, grace is God's
provision for man's sin. It is the only provision
for man's sin. It is the grace of God that
nailed Jesus Christ to the cross. Grace is God's provision
for your sin debt and mine. Therefore, just confessing sin
doesn't get us forgiven, just repenting of sin doesn't get us
forgiven, just crying out to God and telling Him how awful we
are doesn't get us forgiven. The only way to be forgiven of
sin is through the blood of Jesus Christ. Now, I'll say this again, this
is why I say if you go to a church somewhere and the cross
is never mentioned, the blood is never mentioned, the atoning
death of Jesus Christ is never mentioned, get out. Because that theology is not
sound, it is not biblical, it is not true, because the whole
Christian life, the whole Christian message
surrounds the cross. Apart from the cross, there
is no hope absolutely. Listen, the only other hope we
have is in man's goodness. Anything that I attempt to add
to the grace of God exalts man and dethrones grace. Anything that I have to add of
myself to get myself accepted in the eyes of God is enthroning
man and dethroning the grace of God. Anything that detracts from the
grace of God has to be wrong. Anything that exalts man and
makes man acceptable in the eyes of God minus the cross is
absolutely totally erroneous, unbiblical, unscriptural, and
evil, because it exalts man. It is nothing more than pride
in man exalting himself. And therefore, the law came
to expose our sinfulness, our wickedness, and our vileness,
and to show us how absolutely hopeless we are. Now, watch this. Then he says, "The Law came in
that the transgression might increase," that is we may
understand what's going on, conviction of sin,
knowledge of sin. Then he says, "But where sin
increased, grace abounded all the more." So there are two
things that reign. Either sin is going to reign in
our heart, or the grace of God's going to reign. Now, look at this for a moment. He said the grace of God
is God's provision for our sin problem. Now, we said the grace of God is
God's kindness and graciousness toward us without regard to
merit or worth on our part and in spite of what we deserve. Grace is God's loving favor to
us in spite of what we deserve. It is undeserved love
being poured out upon us. Listen, being poured out upon
us abundantly, inexhaustibly, unreservedly, the love of God
poured out upon us, not because we deserve it. It has absolutely nothing
to do with deserving. It has to do with a loving God,
listen to this now, who has the privilege, the authority, and
the right to love you and me and forgive us of our sins even
though we have violated His law and keep on violating His law. His forgiveness is continuous
because that is the power of the cross. Jesus paid our sin debt and
frees Almighty God to pour out grace abundantly and
super-abundantly upon us. That's God's provision
for our sin. It is the only
provision for our sin. Now, listen to what he said,
and look at these words now. He said, "Where sin increased,
grace abounded all the more." Now, I want you to look in three
verses of scripture, and I want you to look for something that's
in all three of these verses. I'm not gonna tell you
what it is at first. Fifteen, seventeen, and
twenty one, look at this. He says now, verse 15, "But the
free gift, the free gift, is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of
the one," that's speaking of Adam, that's the way sin came,
"the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by
the grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many." That is, sin came through
Satan, grace through Christ. Verse 17, "For if of
the transgression of one," the sin of Adam
again, "death reigned through the one," through Adam, whole human race fell,
"much more, those who received the abundance
of grace and of the gift of righteousness," made
right in the eyes of God, "will reign in life
through the One, Jesus Christ." Then verse 21, "That as sin
reigned in death, even so grace might reign through
righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." There is one primary thing
found--more than one--but the primary thing found in all
three of these verses is this: Whatever you have of the grace
of God, it is always through Christ Jesus. It is always through the cross. It is always through the
blood of Jesus, no other way. The grace of God is
expressed at the cross. God did a marvelous, miraculous,
incomparable work at the cross. And so when we talk about the
measure of grace, here's what he says. He says, now watch this, he says
when sin increased, he says grace abounded. It's interesting when you look
at those two words, because in the King James version, it says,
"And when sin abounded, grace did much more abound." But they're two Greek words. They're not the same words in
the Greek, and so in the New American Standard, it
uses two different words. What he's saying is this, he
uses the word, and the second, speaking of grace, he puts a
prefix on the beginning of that Greek word which
means superabounds. That is, he says as grace--as
sin comes in, he said grace comes in, in a greater way. For example, he says sin
overflows, grace fills the whole world like a flood. As sin reached the top of Mount
Sinai, he says grace went all the way to heaven. That is, no matter--now, listen
carefully, because this is where you may misunderstand. No matter how much sin,
there is more grace. No matter how intense the
sin, there is greater grace. That is, listen, you cannot
out-sin the grace of God. You cannot sin to the point that
you out-sin the grace of God. God's undeserved favor purchased
by the cross through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, sin
cannot out-reign the grace of God. Now, you say, "Oh,
now wait a minute." Well, I'll tell you what, you
wait first, and then I'll wait, all right? Because I know what
you're thinking, and I'm coming to that,
I've already thought about that. You say, "Now, wait a minute. You mean to tell me that no
matter how much I sin, according to this verse, it says
where sin increased, grace superabounded more?" That is, no matter how much sin
you have, there's more grace. If your sin weighs 2
pounds, grace weighs 100. If you've sinned 1,000
times, grace is beyond that. You cannot out-sin
the grace of God. Otherwise, sin could reign
over the cross, but it cannot. The grace of God is
beyond our comprehension. You say, well, I don't
understand that. Well, you don't have to. You don't have to understand it. Who understands the whole
atoning work of the Lord Jesus Christ? We can explain it, but who can
explain a God so loving and so gracious and so kind to crucify
his only begotten Son to save a bunch like us? Who could ever explain that? Why would he do that? Simply because he loves us. And you see, grace is his
undeserved favor, and our problem is we wanna merit it. We wanna do something
to get in on the act. Listen, there's only one
act, it is the cross. There's only one person,
that is Christ. You and I can do absolutely
nothing to add to that. And what does that do,
make us prideful? No. What does that do, give
us license to sin? No, it drives us to our face
before Almighty God in all of our helplessness and sinfulness. He chose to save us anyway, even
though he knew we would sin 1,000 times even after we've
been forgiven of our sin. You say, "Now,
wait a minute now. You mean to tell me that God's
gonna let me sin over and over and over and over and over
and over and over again and forgive me?" Well, let me ask you a question. Now, put your hand up and
be honest now, you ready? How many of you have ever
committed the same sin more than once? How many of you have committed
the same sin at least ten times? What about 1,000 times? Right, now let me ask you this. When you went to the Lord and
asked Him to forgive you of your sin, what did He say? "No way, 596 times but not 597." Now, let me tell you
why He won't do that. You remember one time when
Jesus and Peter were talking? And Peter said, "Lord,
how many times--" He must have had a
proud streak in him. "Lord, how many times should
I forgive my brother? Seven times?" Sounds real good. Jesus said, "Peter,
seventy times seven." Now, he wasn't saying 490 times,
he was--you know what he was saying? He said, "Peter, it doesn't make
any difference how many times your brother or sister sins
against you, you gotta forgive them. It doesn't make a
difference what they do, you have to forgive them. It doesn't make a difference how
long they do it, you have to forgive them. Doesn't make a difference how
intense it is, how painful and hurtful you have
to forgive them. Peter, there's no end
to your forgiveness." Now, think about this. If Jesus says to you and me it
doesn't make any difference what anybody does to you, how long
they do it, and how intensely they do it and for what their
motive is, you have to forgive them, and there can never come a
time in your life when you can say that is enough. "No more forgiveness, mm-mm." Well, if that's true, then do
you think that you and I are gonna be more
forgiving than God? No way. No matter what you do as a
child of God, you are forgiven. You say murder?
Forgiven. Stealing?
Forgiven. Adultery?
Forgiven. Worshiping idols?
Forgiven. But only by the grace of God
and only by the blood of Jesus. A lost person is forgiven of
nothing until they come to Christ, crying out to him for
mercy and forgiveness based on the shed blood of
Jesus at Calvary. That is the only way
to be forgiven of sin. But let's talk
about saints, now. We all admitted a while ago,
some things we sinned over and over and over again. Well, how many times
does God forgive? I'll tell you how many
times He forgives. As much as is necessary,
and you know what? There's grace left
over, hallelujah. You cannot out-sin
the grace of God. And if He expects me to forgive
my enemy over and over and over again with no limitation on it,
then if God, listen to this, if God put any limitation on His
grace, you and I would be greater than God when it came to
forgiveness, and we know that's not true. Now, watch this. Repentance never precedes
the grace of God. The grace of God precedes
everything else. It is the grace of God that
convicts us of our sins. It's by the grace of God that
He's provided salvation. It's by the grace of God that
you and I have any faith at all. It's by the grace of God that
we have anything and any hope. It is grace, grace, grace,
grace, grace, and nothing but grace. And anything you and I try to
add to it is nothing but human pride, and God hates it. You say, "All right, I
got some questions." All right, good. "You mean to tell me that I can
go out here and sin against God and do the same thing over and
over and over and over and over and over and over again
and God will forgive me?" Now, listen carefully, because
I know that I have some friends out there who believe you can
fall from grace who think, boy, I've been waiting for
him to admit this. The answer is yes, and
how do I know that? Because here's what He says. He says, "Where sin abounded,"
or increased, "grace superabounded all the more." You cannot out-sin
the grace of God. You say, "Well, that gives
me license for sin." No, it doesn't. "You mean to tell me, though,
that if I commit the same old sin and go back and ask him to
forgive me over and over and over and over and over again,
that God is gonna forgive me?" Well, let me say first of all,
when Jesus died on the cross, He paid all your sin debt
in full 2,000 years ago. You've been forgiven
long time ago. And that forgiveness was
effected, that forgiveness became a reality in your life
the moment you receive Christ as your Savior. Now, think about this. When you got saved, the Bible
said you and I became children of God, that we're children. He says as newborn babes desire
the sincere milk of the Word, which means the simple
things in the Word of God. So God knows we're children,
so you and I got saved and what happens? We stumble and fall
over ourselves. We sin against God, and we
keep learning, and we keep discovering things in
the Bible we never knew before, and we keep
learning how to live the Christian life,
and you know what? Even after you've learned as
much as you and I think we know, what do we do? We still disobey him at times. Now, listen, God is a
holy God and hates sin. The only way in this world that
you and I are acceptable to God today is grace, unmerited,
undeserved love poured out upon us, not because we deserve
it, but because He's a loving Father. How can He do that? Even He can only do that because
His Son paid my sin debt and yours in full. That isn't cheap grace. Somebody says that's cheap grace
if you go out here and sin all you want to and get by with it. I didn't say you get by with it. I'm coming to that. I said you can sin and sin and
sin and disobey God, and the forgiveness is still there,
because you cannot out-sin the forgiveness of God,
the grace of God. You cannot. That's the nature of God. And it isn't that He's weak
or become less holy. And listen, when somebody says,
"Well, that's cheap grace," you ask them this: How
cheap is the life of the Son of God? That's not cheap. Because the truth is
that Jesus was God and is God incarnate here
on earth when He was walking among us. That was Almighty God
Himself loving us so much to choose to come into
this world in human flesh, born like every other
little boy, except that he was virgin born
without a father, in His mother's womb and
grew up like other little boys, only sinless, and
became a teenager like other teenagers, only
sinless, and launched that into a ministry given to Him by His
heavenly Father at the age of 30, and died at about 33
years of age on a cross between two thieves. And He died as the Lamb of
God to take away the sin of the world. That is not cheap grace. That is the most
expensive grace. Listen, when God Himself died
on the cross, don't call it cheap grace. It is the most expensive grace
that could ever have been. So somebody says, "Well,
now wait a minute, now. You mean to tell me that if I go
out here and sin and sin and sin and just come back and tell
Him about it and confess that I'm forgiven?" Well, let me ask you this, what
did He mean when He said when sin increased, grace
superabounded? He meant exactly what He said,
that the grace of God takes care of all my sin. Now, listen carefully, that does
not give us license to sin, it does not promote sin, God hates
sin, and listen, with the grace of God, listen, part of the
expressions, part of the expressions of the wonderful
love of God is divine discipline, is
divine chastisement. If God sees us heading in the
wrong direction, what does He do? Because, listen, a God of loving
grace wants to stop us before we step out. A God of loving grace is a
God of discipline, and His discipline is pure love. You see, it's amazing how we
have made him this awful judge. God is a God of wrath and
justice and judgment and hell, no doubt about it. But I want you to think
about Jesus for a moment. It's interesting that no matter
who Jesus met, what His response was. For example, He didn't say to
Zacchaeus, who was a traitor to the Jews, he was collecting
taxes among his own people for Rome, and so those
people hated him. He didn't say, "Zacchaeus, you
dirty scoundrel, you, you rotten traitor, get down here. I wanna talk to you
about the law of God." He didn't say that. You know what He said? He said, "Zacchaeus," knowing
that of all the people on the street that day, the most
despicable guy on the street was Zacchaeus, Jesus said,
"Zacchaeus, come on down. I'm going home with you today." Man, they had a fit. The Pharisees and Sadducees
threw a fit, and even his his apostles were having a
problem with that one. The woman at the well, Jesus
said to her--but here's what He didn't say. He could have said,
"Shame on you. You have really blown it. What a mess you have
made of your family. Five husbands, and the guy
you're living with now, he's not your husband. I mean, what kind of a
woman are you anyway? Don't even get around Me." You know what He said to her? He said, "You wanna be free? You're talking to Mr. Freedom. All you have to do is take
a drink, and you'll be free forever." The woman caught in the very act
of adultery, thrown at his feet, and they said, "Here's what
the law of Moses said, Jesus. The law of Moses says
stone her to death." You know what Jesus said,
He didn't say, "Guilty, shameful adulterer." He said, "Don't
do that anymore." Don't do that anymore. You know what our problem is? You and I don't know anything
about that kind of forgiveness. We won't do it to each other. And it's hard for us to accept
the fact that Jesus Christ, everybody He talked to, He
talked to in forgiveness and love. The only crowd He really worked
on were the Pharisees and the Sadducees. You know why? I mean, you read that
23rd chapter of Matthew. He calls them a bunch of snakes. He called, listen, I mean,
this is Jesus now, this is loving Jesus. Said, "You bunch of reptiles,
you snakes, you whited sepulchres, you're like a bunch
of whitened coffins, you're so dead." You know why? Because Zacchaeus had a big need
in this life, and the woman at the well had a big need in her
life, and the woman caught it adultery had a big
need in her life. Pharisees and Sadducees were
so proudful, egotistical, and cocky, they didn't need anybody,
including Christ, and God hates pride and loves the sinner. You cannot out--listen, you
can't out-sin the grace of God. How do I explain that? I don't have to explain it,
except to say here's what God says. You know why it's so
hard to understand? Here's why it's so
hard to understand. How could God love me like that? Because he's God, that's all
the reason you and I need. That's not license to sin. That's not encouraging sin. You say, "Well, I would think
anybody who would say things like that would be
encouraging people to sin." No, not encouraging anybody to
sin, because you see, here's what happens. When grace comes into our life,
we receive Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. Not only does He deliver us from
the penalty of sin, it is His desire to deliver us from the
power of sin in our life. Look in chapter six
for a moment. Notice what he says. Now that we are living under
grace and not the law, not reigning--sin's not reigning,
he says, verse 12 of Romans 6, "Therefore do not let sin reign
in your mortal body that you should obey its lusts." You don't have to
do that anymore. In other words, you don't
have to do that anymore. "And do not go on
presenting the members of your body to sin as
instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves
to God as those who are alive from the dead,
and your members as instruments of
righteousness to God." Verse 18, having been freed
from sin's enslaving power, now you have become slaves of
righteousness, that is children of God who want to
be obedient to God. He breaks not only the penalty
of sin in their life, but he cancels out its power. We don't have to live the
way we used to live, why? It's the grace of God. It's the love of God. And listen, one of the greatest
expressions of the grace of God is the fact, listen, that--
listen to this--that Almighty, holy, righteous, perfect God
would condescend in all of His holiness to come and live on the
inside of folks like you and me, to be indwelt by God in the
person of Christ through the Holy Spirit, to be indwelt by
God, that God in His holiness would be--He would live on the
inside of these temples of ours? Yes. You know why? Because He loves us. And the appeal to lost men today
is not fiery judgment, hell, and damnation. Jesus's appeal was, "I love you,
and I want what's best for you, and if you'll follow Me, life
will never be the same." Does that mean there's
no place for judgment? Oh no, it doesn't
mean that at all. No place for divine
chastisement? Oh no, all of us who've sinned
against God have been whipped by God. His divine hand of chastisement,
His divine hand of divine discipline, it is there, but
that in itself is an expression of love. And what does this motivate? You mean to tell me that no
matter how much I sin, that God's forgiveness has
taken care of it? Yes. Does that free me to sin?
No. License me to sin?
No. Motivate me to want to sin?
Not really. Then what does it do? Here's what it does. When you and I begin to
understand the grace of God, what happens? Well, here's the problem. Most of us think we're
better than we are. And see, the most difficult kind
of person to get saved is a fellow or gal who's been
rather moral in their life and done some good things
and sort of benevolent and got lots of
friends or whatever. In other words, they think,
"Well, you know, I'm not too bad. Don't give me this God business. I mean, I don't, you know,
I don't need God." And listen, the reason I know
that most people feel that way about themselves is because
that's why they're not in church. Most of the people in Atlanta
are not in church this morning. They haven't prayed this
morning, they haven't read the Bible this morning. They're not thinking about
spiritual things this morning, you know why? I'll tell you why, it's real
simple, they don't think they need it. Because Satan has so deceived
them that they're good enough. "Well, what? I don't need to go to church. I don't need the Bible. Don't give me this
preacher business. Don't give me this gospel and
hellfire and damnation. I don't need all that
stuff in my life." Why? Because human pride says I
believe that I can be good enough to be acceptable to God. Their problem is that that
concept of God is He's a distorted old grandfather who
knows nothing about reality. It took the blood of Jesus to
forgive one or a million and one and everyone. That is nothing but pure pride. Anybody who thinks they don't
need God's living in pride, and God hates it, and pride will
ultimately destroy them. Doesn't motivate us to do that. What does the grace
of God--listen. Think about this. What does the love of God loving
us in our sinfulness, loving us unto holiness, as He said, unto
righteousness and eternal life. What does that motivate? Here's what it motivates. It motivates thanksgiving and
praise and worship and the desire to be obedient to
Him and to follow Him. That's what grace motivates. And the person who says, "Well,
then I can just sin all I want to, and all I gotta do is
just tell God about it." Try it. And my friend, if that's your
attitude, more than likely you've never been saved. If you want to sin, you've given
yourself over to it, more than likely you've never been saved. But when you begin to
contemplate that a loving Father has provided for your
forgiveness no matter what. He knows you struggle, He knows
you may get entrapped, He knows you may have all kinds of
difficulty and things going on in your life, you know
what He's doing? He's loving you through that,
forgiving you in that, because God's purpose is to conform you
to His likeness no matter what. If you choose to rebel against
Him, to sin against Him willfully, and you choose that,
divine discipline comes, and it comes strongly, and He says
there is a sin unto death, that is, there are times and nobody
knows who nor when nor how nor why, there are times, and there
can be times when God decides He's just gonna wipe somebody
out, when He knows, when He knows that He can
no longer allow something to go
on in their life. Does that mean the grace
of God stopped? No. It means the grace of God is so
great that He's looking out for people around them and what
they do to themselves. You see, you cannot
stop the grace of God. Somebody says, "What
about suicide?" I wanna make this very clear,
suicide is a horrible sin. It is a perverted way to escape
what's happening in a person's life and what they're facing. It is absolutely a sin. You lose your reward when
you take your own life. So I wanna make that clear
for somebody who may be contemplating that. Is it forgivable? Absolutely. You cannot name a sin that does
not fall under the canopy of the grace of God, continually,
continuing forgiveness. So what does it motivate? I don't know about you, but when
I think about my own life, and I think about how many times God's
forgiven me, it motivates me to want to get on my face before
Him and say thank you, thank you, thank you, God. I praise You, I worship
You, I adore You. I can never thank You enough. I wanna walk obediently before
You and holy in Your presence and follow You and
not disobey You. Focus my heart upon You, fasten
my soul to You, strap me to You, do whatever is necessary to
keep me holy before You. I don't want to sin against God. Now, I want you to
get a hymnbook out. Get your hymnbook. Now, here's what I want
you to think about. We sing these songs, and man, we
get up, and we just sing them all by rote, and man, we don't
even think about the words. Well, here's what I want you
to start thinking about, 201, listen to this, and don't get
ahead of me, just follow me. Marvelous grace of
our loving Lord. Look at this, grace
that exceeds our what? Our sin and our
guilt, it exceeds it. Well, how much
does it exceed it? It's always ahead of it. Yonder on Calvary's mount
outpoured, there where the blood of the Lamb was spilled. Grace, grace, God's grace,
grace that will pardon and cleanse within. Grace that is greater
than all our sin. Verse four, marvelous, infinite. Listen to that,
marvelous, infinite. If it's infinite,
it has no ending. Marvelous, infinite, matchless
grace, nothing like it. Freely bestowed on
all who believe. You that are longing to see His
face, will you this moment His grace receive? Marvelous grace, infinite grace,
matchless grace, super-abundance of grace, the
forgiveness of God. And who gets magnified
in all of that? Just one person. Jesus. Now, what does that say to us? It says hallelujah, thank God,
I do not have to live under the guilt, I do not have to live
under the shadow of the guilt and listen to the whispers of
Satan that I am unworthy, I already know that. That God's grace has run
out, because it hasn't. That God isn't gonna
forgive me, He already has. I don't have to listen to that. And what does it say? We owe Him everything. We sing all to Jesus. I surrender, all to
Him I freely give. I will ever love and trust Him,
in His presence daily live. We sing "Amazing grace,
how sweet the sound." What's so sweet about it? That it saved a what? A wretch like me. Now, let me show you how
man's pride is on the prowl. Did you get that? Listen to this. We used to sing at the cross, at
the cross where I first saw the light, and the burden of
my heart rolled away. It was there by faith
I received my sight. Now I'm happy all the day. One of those verses says
for such a worm as I. Do you know what happened? The writers of the
hymnbooks decided worm? So they decided to change it to
sinner, for a sinner such as I. You know what they've done now? They've changed it
from sinner to person. You know what we're doing? We are stealing the glory
from the grace of God. You know what we are
doing in the hymnbook? We're saying we're getting
better all the time. I was a worm, then I was a
sinner, and now I'm a person, and that is nothing but
pure stinking pride. Listen to me, anything that
builds up man and takes away from the glory of God
is nothing but pride. Now, once I was a worm, now I'm
a sinner, now I'm a person. You know what I'm doing? What I'm doing is I'm printing
it in such a way that I'm looking better all the time when
God says my flesh is wicked, vile, sinful, useless, and
absolutely totally unimprovable. That's why you have to watch
what you read and be sure what you believe. And that's why it is, listen, it
won't work anymore just going to church and getting a little
frothy, something so you'll feel better and you can make
it till next week. We need to be rooted and
grounded in truth so that when we hear something, we know
it's either right or wrong, believable or unbelievable, and
you gotta have truth, listen, not only to live by, but you
gotta have truth to die by. And what I discovered is a lot
of folks think they got enough truth to die by, but they sure
don't have enough to live by. Why do you think old John Newton
the slave trader wrote "Amazing grace, how sweet that
sound that saved a pretty nice guy like me?" He didn't say that. Who saved a what? Wretch, and today in all of our
books on self-esteem and all of the success and everything
else, what do we do? We're just pumping up man,
pumping up man, making man look better and feel better. Man, you gotta feel
good about yourself. Well, you can feel good
about yourself and be absolutely wrong. You wanna feel good
about yourself? Look at the cross, hallelujah. Look at the cross, then you
can feel good about yourself. Here's what you can say, washed
in the blood, sanctified with the Spirit of God, full of the
grace of Almighty God, totally dependent upon Him, saint and
child of God by His grace, then you feel good about yourself. Anything else is pure
pride, and it has to go. Marvelous, infinite,
matchless grace. I love that. Father, we love You, and we
praise You and bless You and honor You and exalt You and lift
You up, and we know that there are not enough words in the
English language or all the languages in the world all
together to express the joy, the gratitude, the thanksgiving, and
the praise for grace that is beyond anything we
could possibly imagine. And to think that when we stand
in Your presence in glory, and we get our first real true
glimpse with full understanding of Your grace, no wonder you
said the angels are gonna be singing and shouting
all over glory. No wonder You said we're gonna
be trophies of grace that are gonna make them shout
and praise You forever. We thank You for
your forgiveness. Thank You for making us sons
and daughters, thanking You for allowing us to walk in grace,
stand upon the rock of grace, live under the canopy of grace,
surrounded by Your grace. We just want to tell You we
don't understand it all, but we understand enough, Father, to
humble ourselves before You and to say we know that it's all of
Jesus and none of us, amen.