Our sin we could never repay before a
PERFECT HOLY GOD. BUT SOMEBODY CAME UP
WHO COULD pay it, who paid the bill for
us that propitiated
AND SATISFIED GOD. THE GOOD NEWS OF THE
GOSPEL IS YOU DON'T HAVE TO PAY for your
sins cuz Jesus has already picked up the
tab. And that is the good news of the
gospel.
All of us to one degree or another are
concerned about our length of life. We
want to live
as long as we can. We want to have our
lifespan expanded not retracted
because we are concerned about the
length of life.
It would not be normal to prefer
not to live out your fully ordained
days.
But while we are all concerned about the
length of life,
we're also concerned about the quality
of life.
We want to live out our fully ordained
days, but we would like to be healthy.
We would like to have some vim and vigor
and vitality to our days.
We don't want to retire in illness and
dependency.
We would like to be as strong and as
vibrant as life will allow.
So that we want life's length, but we
also want life's quality
>> because they go hand in hand to having a
well-meaning
ordered
existence.
Well, spiritually speaking,
John the Apostle wrote about both.
In the book of John, St. John, he writes
about our length of life. Because in St.
John, he's telling us how to have
eternal life, how to possess it. He's
talking about how to be regenerated,
converted, to become a Christian so that
you are imparted eternal life. So that
you now have the hope of living forever
with God throughout all eternity. That's
what first St. John is all about. But
the apostle John, the most intimate of
all the disciples,
also wrote first John and second John
and third John. And in first John, his
concern is not length of life because
he's writing to people who already
possess eternal life. His concern in
first John is quality of life.
While we are living forever, he wants us
to grow in the quality of that
existence.
Not merely that we have it, but that we
are maximizing it and experiencing it.
>> Yeah.
He begins in verse five by saying, "This
is the message. This is what you need to
catch. This is what I don't want you to
miss. This is the message. God is light
and in him is no darkness at all."
He says, "The first thing you need to
know if you're going to increase your
intimacy with God is his character." and
his character is 12:00 noon only, never
midnight.
GOD IS LIGHT. HE'S NOT ONLY in light, he
is light.
>> And it is so much light that there is no
darkness at all.
THERE IS NOT THE SMALLEST element of
dark when it comes to God. And he only
operates in what he calls light.
You will not find him in dark. You will
only find him in light. And he says this
understanding of God's character, light,
not dark, as you'll see in a moment, is
fundamental to your increase or lack
thereof of spiritual intimacy.
He says GOD IS LIGHT. SO let's discuss
light.
The first thing you need to know about
light is that in light there are no
impurities.
Light has no impurities.
So God is perfect in his nature. There
is nothing about him that is impure
because light POSSESSES NO IMPURITY. THE
SECOND thing you need to know about
light is THAT WHILE IT POSSESSES NO
IMPURITY, it does expose impurity.
>> Because when you turn the light on, you
see things that shouldn't be there.
>> You see things that are out of sorts.
Not because it's in the light, BUT
BECAUSE IT'S REVEALED BY THE LIGHT. SO
WHILE THERE IS NO impurity in light,
there is exposure from light. And when
exposure comes from light, you see
reality.
DARKNESS DOES NOT ALLOW you to see
reality because things are dark. You
don't see things as they really are. In
the light, which is pure, you get the
exposure of that which is legit, that
which is not legit, because the light
exposes things. So he wants you to know
you will never find God over here in the
dark. You will only find God over here
in the light. SO IF YOU'RE NOT RELATING
TO THE LIGHT, YOU'RE NOT relating to
God. And if you're NOT RELATING TO GOD,
YOU'RE NOT GROWING IN intimacy cuz
you're in a place where he is not. Okay?
So that is the theological construct.
That is the theological framing that he
wants to give that that is going to be
foundational to understanding
God. He is only operating in the light.
Therefore he says if we say verse six we
have coinia fellowship with him and yet
walk in darkness we lie and do not
practice the truth.
If you say me and God are cool,
me and God are are running buddies, me
and God are close, but you're operating
over here in the dark. He says you are a
liar
>> because you are hanging out in a
location where he is not because in him
there is no darkness. So if you're
hanging out in the dark and yet claiming
coinia, he says those two cannot operate
simultaneously because you're operating
in a realm where he does not exist. He
will not show up over here cuz in him
there is no darkness at all. All right?
So then light no impurity but it does
expose so that you see reality. Okay.
Dark allows impurity and you don't see
reality because you don't see it's dark.
So he says if you say we I'm growing in
my faith. I'm getting stronger as a
Christian but you're hanging out there.
You lied. Okay. Let's continue.
BUT if we walk in the light as he
himself, verse 7 says, is in the light,
we have fellowship with one another. And
the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us
from all sin.
If we walk over here in the light
>> as he is in the light,
>> then you get coinia fellowship. You get
to share something in common because
you're hanging out where he hangs out
which is only in the light of his
reality.
And here it is. If we walk in the light
as he is in the light,
the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all
sin.
Now, I know we love to sing there's
power in the blood.
Wonder working power in the blood. The
blood will never lose its power. That is
more than a song.
He says in verse 7, if we walk in the
light as he is in the light, we will
have coinia fellowship shared in common
with him and the blood of Jesus Christ
will cleanse us from all sin. But wait a
minute, if there is no impurity with
God, why is the blood of Jesus Christ
cleansing us from all sin? Because if
you're walking in the light, it's the
light that's showing you the sin that
you need to be cleansed of.
>> THE LIGHT IS EXPOSING YOU. One of THE
BEAUTIES OF FELLOWSHIP WITH GOD IS
HAVING God expose your impurity by his
light. HIS LIGHT IS NOT HIS IMPURITY,
BUT IT IS SHOWING YOU YOUR IMPURITY SO
THAT HE CAN KEEP HAVING FELLOWSHIP WITH
YOU. SO THAT THE BLOOD keeps doing what
the blood is designed to do to make you
zestfully clean. [clears throat] So the
blood of Jesus Christ is a cleansing
process, but only if you're operating in
the light. Once you come over here, the
blood is STILL WORKING, BUT IT'S NOT
WORKING OVER HERE. It's only working
over there because God IS ONLY LIGHT.
HE'S not in dark. SO IF YOU ARE
OPERATING out of exposure by God who is
the light, you're operating without the
benefit of the blood. AND IF YOU'RE
OPERATING WITHOUT THE benefit of the
blood, you don't have the work of God,
fellowship with God, the work of the
cross, the cleansing OF THE BLOOD
OPERATING IN YOUR LIFE CUZ YOU'RE
OPERATING IN A REALM WHERE GOD WILL NOT
VISIT, hang out, or even affirm. So you
have to BE IN THE LIGHT. YOU SAY, "BUT
I'm in the LIGHT AND I'M SEEING ALL THIS
STUFF IS WRONG WITH ME." THAT'S CUZ YOU
IN THE LIGHT.
You're supposed to see it. [applause]
In the light, YOU GOING TO SAY, "BOY,
I'M TOW UP FROM THE FLOOR UP." IN THE
LIGHT. I'M SAYING, "I'M NOT AS GOOD AS I
THOUGHT I WAS." WONDERFUL. THE LIGHT HAS
REVEALED IT.
That's what the light is designed to do.
The light is ex designed to expose.
>> Now he says,
he says if we say
we have no sin, we are deceiving
ourselves and the truth is not in us. We
are more messed up than we know.
Okay, remember in God there's no
darkness at all. So, so anything unlike
him is sin. BECAUSE WHAT GOD WANTS YOU
TO SEE is he is light. So he wants now
to have the freedom with his purity to
show us where we're not like him. So we
can be cleaned up because we're in
fellowship with him. And when he cleans
us up, he's free to have more fellowship
with us because he now has the kind of
relationship where we're holding in
common what he holds in common.
We're thinking like he thinks and seeing
what he sees
>> and reacting like he reacts. So walking
in the light, you don't deny what God
shows.
You affirm it.
>> When you're walking in the light, God's
going to see things you don't see.
He's going TO SEE PRIDE YOU DIDN'T KNOW
YOU HAD. He He's He's going to see
racism you didn't KNOW YOU HAD. HE'S
going to see HE'S GONNA SEE JEALOUSY YOU
DIDN'T KNOW YOU HAD. AND HE'S GOING TO
EXPOSE IT. NOW THE QUESTION IS, DO YOU
LET HIM CUT IT? SO NOW THE QUESTION IS,
can he address it so that he's free now
to take you to the next spiritual level?
>> Because once you deny it, reject it, or
won't let him cut it, you've just moved
to darkness and he's not over there.
>> So what happens with many of us as
Christians, we live our lives in
darkness
>> because we don't give God the freedom to
show us what he sees.
Yeah.
>> So he says in verse 8, he says if if we
say we have no sin, we are only
deceiving ourselves.
>> We wind up like Adam and Eve. We wind up
hiding from God.
>> So let me warn you right now. If you go
to the light and you give God the
freedom to say, "Okay, God, here I am.
See, if there be any wicked way in me,
he going to answer that prayer."
>> But he's only going to answer that
prayer to give you more fellowship. He's
not answering that prayer to be mean.
He's answering that prayer to let you
have another level of him operating in
your life because now you'll see things
as they really are.
>> Okay. So, what do you do? You're walking
in the light. You're giving God freedom
of exposure. Lord, show me me as you see
me. Show me the evil heart. Show me the
uh prideful ways. Show me the uh uh uh
the hatred that I have. Show expose me.
I I'm giving you freedom, Lord, to let
me see me as you see me. Okay?
He going to tell you, you ain't all that
in a bag of chips. I'm going to let you
that know that now. That exposure will
come. But that's good news
>> cuz now he says in verse 9, if we
confess our sins,
>> he is faithful and righteous to forgive
us our sins and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness. Yes, sir.
The Greek word for confess means to say
the same thing, admit or acknowledge.
>> When you are in the light, giving God
freedom to reveal you to you as he sees
you.
>> And he shows you
something about you that is not godly in
your character, in your person. He
reveals you to you.
>> Yeah.
He says, "If you will agree with me,
confess." Confess means to say the same
thing. If you will agree that I know
what I'm talking about and what I showed
you is real, if you will confess your
sins, please notice the word sin is
plural.
>> If we will agree with God on what he
reveals, because he's going to reveal
something specific. He's going to reveal
the attitude or the action that is
outside of his will because you're
operating in the light. If you will
agree with me, let me give you a little
distinction between uh confession and
repentance. Confession is to agree with
God because he showed you something.
Repentance is that you've developed a
pattern that needs to be reversed.
Confession is not tied to a pattern.
It's tied to an act that is revealed and
you are responding to that. Repentance
is a pattern that needs to be reversed.
You need confession to get to
repentance, but your name may not need
repentance if you handle confession
right. Because you never allow
confession to become a pattern that
needs to turn in to repentance. Okay? So
he says if we confess our sins, he is
faithful and just to forgive our sins
and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness. So you're in the light.
You've given God the right in his purity
to expose you to himself and reveal you
to you as he sees you. And he revealed
something to you. And you say, "Lord,
you just showed me that that what I just
said and how I just acted was not
consistent with you. I agree with you
that that IS SIN." BAM. VERSE SEVEN, IS
NOW ACTIVATED. And the blood of Jesus
Christ, the washing machine, has been
turned on to cleanse whatever you
confess. But verse nine says, if you
confess your sins, he's faithful and
just to forgive your sins. And then he
throws in a bonus. And to cleanse you
from all unrighteousness. Translation,
confess the sins you do know, and he'll
take care of the ones you don't know.
[applause]
>> Because we don't know all of our sins.
We don't know all of our mistakes. We've
forgotten. Do you know how many times we
sin a day?
>> We our our day is peppered with sins.
But he says, "But I GOT YOU. IF WHEN I
SHOW YOU SOMETHING, YOU RESPOND to it,
I'll take care of the other things you
don't see."
>> Why? Because I want to have fellowship
with you. And I want to grow our
intimacy and our coinia. And I will
cover you if you're willing to operate
with me in the light. That's right.
>> Well, what has happened with God is when
you ignore it and he put the light on,
>> fellowship is lost.
>> Fellowship is lost because you're not
saying the same thing. You're saying the
lights on, but it doesn't mean anything.
It doesn't matter. It's not showing me
anything. So once you ignore it, you're
in dark and he won't go there.
>> God won't go to the dark place.
>> He won't go to the dark place. He will
only operate in his reality. He will not
operate with fake news because you're
operating in the dark. And once you're
there, you can pray all day.
>> But he's not going to respond because it
is outside of who he is. That's why
Psalm 66:18 says, "If I regard iniquity
in my heart, the Lord will not hear me.
If you're over here, he's not listening
to your prayer." He says in Proverbs
28:13, "He who covers his sin shall not
prosper. If you're over here, his favor
is not going to be with you cuz he
doesn't OPERATE IN THE DARK. HE only
works in the light where he does reveal
what is not like him." And that's good
news because now he begins a cleansing
process to bring us in harmony with him.
Many Christians run from the light
because they don't want to hear how God
feels about a certain subject.
>> They don't want to hear that. As long as
it's comfortable, sweet preaching, nice,
make me feel good, uh uh you know, never
never anything wrong, just build me up
and lift me up. See, that's that's
that's darkness sermons.
>> If those are the only sermons you hear
about God is love, God is nice, God
forgives, God.
Okay. Okay.
That's milk toast.
>> Okay.
>> That's cotton candy.
>> All right. You need to know. I need to
know. We need to know God is light and
in him is no darkness at all. So the
question is, do you want to have
fellowship with him and give him
permission TO SHOW YOU WHAT'S WRONG SO
HE CAN FORGIVE it and have fellowship
with you as you make it right?
When God shows you you and it don't look
good, God is showing you what needs to
be straightened up, fixed up, cleaned
up. He's showing you what's wrong in
order to have fellowship with you as you
walk with him to make it right. MANY
SAY, "WELL, GOD [screaming] WON'T HELP
ME." HE NOT GOING TO HELP YOU UNLESS YOU
OVER HERE. HE not going to help you over
here.
>> So, if you're walking in darkness,
you cannot ask him to help you get over
whatever you need to GET OVER CUZ HE
DOESN'T HANG OUT THERE. Cuz in him is no
darkness at all. He must be free to give
you his standard. He must be free to
expose how unlike that standard we are
calling us to confession so he can bring
about cleansing. And verse 10 says, if
we say we have not sinned, we make him a
liar and his word is not in us. Call God
a liar, you're over here. AND EVERYBODY
WANTS GOD TO FIX STUFF WHILE THEY walk
in the dark.
>> Not going to do it.
So, how does it work? That's where the
first two verses of chapter 2 come in.
My little children, talking to fellow
Christians,
>> I'm writing these things to you that you
may not sin. I'm not encouraging you to
sin, but if anyone sins, we have an
advocate with the father, Jesus Christ
the righteous.
>> The Greek word advocate is pericletos.
John uses this word five times. Four
times in St. John in chapter 14:15 and
16 it's called the helper and he refers
to the Holy Spirit as the paricletos the
helper but in first John
he calls paricletos Jesus Christ not the
holy spirit and he calls him he calls
him the advocate.
>> Now you have to understand how this
works.
Satan is a prosecuting attorney.
>> He presents our sins before God in order
to deny us fellowship
because he knows God is pure. So he
brings our sins. So you have all these
times in the Bible, Zechariah 3, Job 1,
uh, uh, Revelation 12:10, all these
verses where Satan is called the accuser
of the brethren. He can't take away your
salvation once you've come to Christ,
but he can break your fellowship. Yes.
>> You ever have people in your life who
try to break your fellowship with
another person or with your kids, with
your mate? They're just trying to
influence. They're trying to start mess.
Well, he's a mess starter. And what he
does is he takes our sin and he uses
that in order to try to break fellowship
with God. Okay? Because he knows God is
light. So he says, "But we have a
defense attorney,
>> an advocate."
>> The defense attorney defends us against
the prosecuting attorney who's
presenting a legitimate case against us
cuz he only presents legitimate stuff.
He presents our sin. Our sin is real.
God is light. So he can't keep our sin.
But we have an attorney. He calls him an
advocate, a paricletos, one called
alongside to help. It says, "We have an
advocate with the father,
>> Jesus Christ the righteous."
>> The son of the judge is your defense
attorney.
>> And the son of the judge is righteous.
>> In other words, he has no sin.
>> AND HOW IT WORKS IS VERSE TWO. And we
could be in tall cotton here, but I want
to give you the simplest way I can give
it. And he himself, Jesus, is the
propitiation
for our sins. And not for ours only, but
also for those of the whole world.
>> Let me give you the synonym for
propitiation. It's one of those big
theological words. A synonym for
propitiation means
satisfaction.
>> Yeah.
>> What do I mean?
With the death of Christ on the cross,
the wrath of God against sin was
satisfied.
>> The demands of a holy God was
propitiated or satisfied [screaming]
by the death of Christ.
When Jesus died, his last words were,
"It is finished. To tell us thy," which
means paid in full.
>> The full payment for all the sins of all
mankind for all time was nailed to the
cross of Jesus Christ
>> and it propitiated God. Now, THERE'S A
WHOLE THEOLOGY OF ATONEMENT of how
propitiation, justification, redemption,
and all how all that fits together. But
to be satisfied right now, here's what
this means. LET'S SAY YOU OWE A bill and
you don't have the money to pay. You
don't have the money to pay the bill. I
come up and I pay the bill that I don't
owe. You owe. Once I pay the bill, the
person that you owe THE MONEY TO IS NOW
SATISFIED.
THEY'RE NOT SATISFIED CUZ YOU PAID IT.
They're propitiated or satisfied because
I paid it even though it was your bill.
>> SO IT WAS YOUR BILL, you couldn't pay
it, but I became THE PROPITIATION
FOR YOUR DEBT BY PAYING THE BILL FOR
YOU.
>> OUR SIN we could never repay before a
PERFECT HOLY GOD. BUT SOMEBODY CAME UP
WHO could pay it, WHO PAID THE BILL FOR
us that propitiated
AND SATISFIED GOD. THE PROPITIATION WAS
SO STOUT THAT IT COVERS THE SINS of the
whole world, making every human being
savable because of the work of Jesus
Christ on the cross. And that is the
GOOD NEWS OF THE GOSPEL. THE GOOD NEWS
OF THE GOSPEL IS YOU DON'T HAVE TO PAY
FOR your sins cuz JESUS HAS ALREADY
PICKED UP THE tab and propitiated the
wrath of A HOLY GOD. AND SO WHAT HE IS
SAYING TO US today is that this work of
Christ which is HIS CONTEMPORARY JOB
FULL HE HAS A FULL-TIME job now 24/7 on
the right hand of the father and that is
being an intercessor a mediator to act
on our behalf as we confess sins to keep
us in fellowship with God so that we can
grow our intimacy because our sins are
continually propitiated. HE IS ALWAYS
PREPARED TO cleanse us with his BLOOD SO
THAT WE DON'T HAVE BREAKS IN OUR
FELLOWSHIP SO THAT WE'RE going north in
our intimacy with God. And so today, the
challenge I want to leave you with is
that there is power in the blood,
>> not only to convert you and take you to
heaven, but to change your quality of
life on your way there by increasing our
fellowship with God.
[music]
