God is not lowering his standard to please folk. What he wants to do is grow me, you, and us up to meet the standard. So you don't have to be here having met the standard, but you should be here wanting to grow so you can meet the standard, which is what spiritual growth and disciplehip is all about. It is growing to reach the standard. Well, today in Revelation chapter 2, the Lord is going to talk about the intolerance of an overcomer. If you are going to be an overcomer and not an undercomer. If you're going to be a winner and not a loser, if you're going to be victorious and not live in defeat, you must have your toleration limits. There are certain things you will not tolerate. You won't accept. It's outside of the boundary. He writes to the church at Thyroyra. He says beginning in revelation 2:18 to the angel that is the messenger that is the pastor of the church at thyrotyra right the son of god who has eyes like flame of fire and his feet are like brownish bronze says this so he introduces this designation to the church at thyrotyra so let me tell you about thyroyra it was a place known for its guills or unions. Some of you perhaps belong to a union, a teachers union or uh a steel workers union or uh or or some other kind of official gathering related to people who share the same occupation. Those unions are designed to bring certain benefits, protections, and guarantees to those who participate in that particular enterprise. In the midst of these unions and this city called Thyrotyra, a church was established. The beginning of that church is is summarized for us in Acts chapter 16 verse 14 when Paul the Apostle comes across a woman named Lydia. And Lydia was a seller of purple. It says purple dye. And these dyes was part of couture clothing for the uptown shoppers. And so, uh, the purple dye, she, uh, she was a manufacturer of it. She was a distributor of it, she was a wholesaler of it. And Paul came and led Lydia to Christ in Acts chapter 16:14. Out of that grew a church, Thyrotyra Bible Fellowship. And it grew out of the Salvation of Lydia. And so a church begins to grow in the midst of this secular city called Thyrara. Well, Thyroy is known for its gills and its unions. But let me tell you about a couple of aspects of the unions because that will help you to understand what Jesus is getting ready to say to the church. Not only were the unions connecting people who had the same occupation for protection and for privileges and for rights but it each union had its own god. So the unions had a spiritual or religious aspect to them. So if you were part of thyroid teachers union then you were expected to give recognition to the teachers union god or whatever god was tied to that union. So that was one part of it. So thyrotyra was a workers union but in had a religious aspect but it not only had a religious aspect the unions in thyroid also had a social aspect like a fraternity or a sarity. So there was a social aspect to the unions. So there was a working aspect tied to a religious aspect tied to a social aspect. So you got together with the people that you work with and you partied with them and you you enjoyed good time with them because you shared the same occupation. Well, the problem occurred when people became Christians and belonged to the union and they were expected to recognize the union's God and to party with the other co-workers that it involved things that went against the Christian faith and that created a crisis for the Christians in these secular occupations. I am sure many of you can understand the crisis because many if not most of you have been in the crisis where working in a secular occupation. You have been expected, challenged and sometimes even demanded to compromise spiritual values in order to keep your job or to get a raise on your job. You had to go along to get along. So that is the scenario of thyrotyra and that is the dilemma that the Christians are facing who are working in one of these unions in the city. They're caught in the conflict of needing a job, working a job but having to compromise their faith or compromise their morals in order to be accepted in the job. And that is the scenario. Verse 18 says, "The Son of God, the one with eyes of fire and feet of banished bronze, says this, Jesus Christ has already been introduced as the son of man. But on this occasion in verse 18 to the church at Thyatra, he's not introduced as the son of man. He's introduced as the son of God." And of course, Jesus is both the virgin birth. Mary's egg was fertilized by the Holy Spirit. So you had unddeinished deity poured into sinless humanity so that Jesus Christ is called both the son of man and the son of God. As the son of man, he can relate to your humanity. As the son of God, he can relate to God's deity. So he has one hand in heaven and another hand on earth. One foot in glory and another foot in history because he's both the son of God and the son of man. As the son of man, he can feel you. As the son of God, he can handle you because he is both the son of God and the son of man. He is now introduced to us as the son of God. As the son of God, deity, he says he has eyes of fire, which means he can penetrate what's going on. And Jesus's eyes of fire penetrates the facade. He knows when you're really Christian and he knows when you're faking it to make it because his eyes of fire penetrate to the reality of a thing. He not only has eyes of fire, it says in verse 18, it says he has feet of branish bronze. Well, what do you do with feet? You walk. So, he's got eyes to see it and feet to get to it. So, not only does he know what's going on, he can get a hold of what's going on. And his feet are so strong, branished bronze, that when he decides to move, everybody got to get out of the way. So Jesus Christ now presents himself to this church as the allseeing authoritative one to these Christians who are caught in these unions that are being demanded that they tolerate certain beliefs and practices that compromise their Christian faith. So that's the dilemma. He compliments them in verse 19 where he says to them, I know your deeds, your love, your faith, your service, your p perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than your deeds at first. So you are doing better. You are growing. You are a congregation that I see wants to do the right thing. And so I want to commend you for that. But after commending them, he now criticizes them. He says in verse 20, "But I have this against you." Do you have your seatelt on? I got one problem, but it's a doozy. He says, "I have this against you." Even though you got all this good stuff that you tolerate tolerate the woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophetist and she teaches and leads my bondervants astray so that they commit acts of immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. What's Jesus's problem with this church? His problem is what they tolerate. Well, he says, "You tolerate the woman Jezebel." The problem was toleration. Watch this now. Jesus the son of God says, "I got a problem with you, Thyra Bible Fellowship. Not only not only are you doing good things, but you are tolerating other folk doing bad things. Stay with me here. Even if you're not doing it, you're tolerating it. Even if you're not participating, you are accepting of it. What you're doing is saying, "Well, it's not God's standard, but that's not my business. Your business is your business. My business is my business. And who am I to judge?" So, you had this prophetist, self-proclaimed, cuz she called herself a prophetist. God never called her one. She's a self-proclaimed prophetist. And she's going around speaking on behalf of God, leading church members astray. Stay with me here because I'm going somewhere. Leading church members astray, but because she's a prophetist, she's got God's name all up in the discussion because a prophet speaks on behalf of God. So she's saying God said this and God thinks that and God feels this and and she's making it sound all spiritual and wrapped in all Christianes and she's making it sound like it's holy and like it's coming down from heaven and in the name of God prophetist. She's leading people astray. She's becoming a David Caresh or a Jim Jones using the name of God to lead people away from God. And what the church was doing wrong was tolerating it. accepting it, not saying anything about it, allowing it to spread. As long as I'm not doing it, and as long as I'm not caught up in it, I ain't going to say nothing about it. That's not my business. Well, Jesus says, "Well, well, it's my business." He says, "You tolerate it. You accept it." And he says, "It is unacceptable." Now, it involved two things. It involved worshiping a false god. He says idolatry. The unions worship the idols. He says, "Well, the unions may worship the idols, but I'm the only true god. You don't get to worship the idols just cuz everybody else is doing it." Then there was a lifestyle issue. He says, "Your morals are a skew." So just cuz everybody else in the fraternity and sorority, are acting crazy, are are drugging it up, are sleeping around and are doing this and doing that just cuz they're doing that as part of the union and that's the way they roll. Well, no. The son of God says that in my house based on my standard, that's not how you roll. Not only is it not how you roll, you don't even agree with it. In other words, they should know your stand. You shouldn't be such a hidden Christian that they don't think it matters to you because you are clear on where you stand. What he's saying is that this church tolerated Jezebel. So, let me tell you about Jezie. We find Jezebel in first kings chapter 16 and verse 17. Jezebel was married to Ahab, the king of Israel. Jezebel was the daughter of a king and she was a worshshiper of the god Baal. Baal was the uh fertility god and the god of the pagans. She talked her husband into worshiping Baal. So, we got a strong willed woman married to the king who comes to the king and says, "Well, if you going if you're going to be married to me, you got to go with my God." So, he compromised with her. And when he compromised with her, he's the king. He's leading all of Israel into compromising with her. Sister girl Jesse had such powerful influence that she even threatened the prophet of God Elijah and told him cuz she had 850 false prophets said look look you keep doing what you're doing and I'mma kill you. I'mma kill you. You will not live another day. And she got Israel to compromise. That's why Elijah asked them, "How long will you halt between two opinions? How long you going to go both ways? how long you going to be one way in church and another way at work because he wants you to know as long as you go both ways you'll never be an overcomer because you you are not operating on his standard. He says you tolerate it. You accept it even if you're not doing it. You are allowing it and it's going unressed. It is shameful today what churches are beginning to allow. It is shameful today cuz this woman is in the church. She's a power broker in the congregation. It is shameful today how churches are dumbing down God's standard because they don't want to offend. They they don't want anybody to call them intolerant. But we live in a day when even God's people are dumbing down God's standard. And what a lot of folk want is comfortable church. Don't deal with my sin. Don't deal with my rebellion. Don't talk about God's standard. Just sing a nice song so I can feel good. Make me want to wave my hand in the air like I just don't care. Make me want to flip the pew. Make me feel good, but don't give me a standard. He says to them, "You have tolerated Jezebel. You have tolerated her and she's doing damage to the church." And God says, "What?" And I'm not even being mean about it. Look at verse Look at verse 21. I gave her time to repent. Oh, and she does not want to repent of her immorality. He says, even though this woman Jezebel is been promoting uh uh immorality, been promoting uh idolatry, I gave her an opportunity to fix it. Yes, he did. Repent. God creates repentance windows. Those are periods of time he gives us to turn. They're windows, different windows for different people, different circumstance. But he gives us windows. Remember he told um he told Jonah, "Go tell uh Nineveh in 40 days Nineveh will be destroyed." The bad news Nineveh is going to be destroyed. The good news is you got a 40-day window to change my mind. So God creates windows of repentance, opportunities within a timeline before he moves. He says, "I gave Jezebel even though she was in involved in this this kind of wickedness and even though she was influencing other people to this kind of wickedness, I gave her a window of opportunity to turn. What was her problem? She does not want to repent. Now sin is bad, but not wanting to repent is worse cuz now you've entered into the category called rebellion. Up in here, there is a standard. And so that's why we must regularly call the church to repentance. Each of us individually and all of us together so that the Lord is free to help us to be overcomers. But as long as we are rebels, this woman was not struggling. She was a rebel and she was influencing other people and other folks were around there saying, "Well, that's her business. I ain't got nothing to do with that. Oh, here's here's the way we say it. I'm not supposed to judge. Okay. So, so let's get this straight. Let's get this straight because we people are confused on this thing. You are to always judge the distinction between truth and error. That you you you you must judge. You must judge legitimately. You must judge biblically. You must judge lovingly. you must judge responsibly. But but and and and then you get this sympathetic thing. Well, well, God is a God of love. Yeah. Well, that's half a god. That's one side of God. Romans 11 says, "Knowing the goodness and severity of God." See, you got these two sides of God. We love all people. We do not love all ideas. That's the distinction. So you must hold in your hand two things, truth and love. And the two must be kept together. You don't give up truth for love and you don't give up love for truth. You have to hold both of them simultaneously. God is not lowering his standard to please folk. What he wants to do is grow me, you, and us up to meet the standard. So you don't have to be here having met the standard, but you should be here wanting to grow so you can meet the standard, which is what spiritual growth and disciplehip is all about. It is growing to reach the standard. And so he's saying you tolerate, you accept, you you [Music] dismiss the standard. And so what is a result of that is he goes on to say, "I will throw her Jezebel on a bed of sickness and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation unless they repent of her deeds." So that's bad news and good news. The bad news is he says, "I'm gonna throw her on her bed of sickness." One way God God disciplines us is with sickness. He allows sickness. All all sickness is not due to discipline, but some sickness is. And one of the ways he disciplines, he says, "I will throw on a bed of sickness." So, let me tell you what happened to Jezebel. Jezebel kept going. Kept going. Would not repent. Would not repent. And then she crossed the line. Okay? She crossed the line and God said, "That's it." So, one day she's sitting up there in a window. She falls out of the window, heads her head, uh uh blood splatters everywhere. She laying on the ground and she dies from the fall. Okay, this is this is in uh in 2 Kings chapter 9 verses 30-35. And so she's out there, blood is splattered. So the men come to get her body to bury her. But when they come to get her body, there's nothing left but her skull and her feet cuz the dogs have devoured her. Not only did God take her life, it was the shame of being eaten by the because you would not repent. And he says, "And for Jezebel and her followers, these are those who were practicing what she was doing, there would be the discipline of God." And you say, "Well, I don't believe God is like that. That was that was in the Old Testament." Well, this verse is in the New Testament. And so is Hebrews chap 10:30 and 31. Because Hebrews chapter 10:30 and 31 makes it clear. He says, "Vengeance is mine, sayaeth the Lord, and I will judge my people. I will judge my people, not to be mean, but to bring corrective measures into their lives." There is the temptation in the world. There used to be a time when I was growing up, when you were growing up, where the culture supported biblical values. Even if even if they didn't operate by them, they respected them. So certain values that was just a respectable thing to do, even if you weren't doing it. But today, biblical values are not only rejected, they are flaunted. What is God expecting of you? He is expecting of me and you and us to repent where we have failed and then to hold a standard of where we will not tolerate. It's intolerable. There must be a standard that the kingdom of God holds to that we get back in line with if we're out of alignment so that the church of Jesus Christ is distinct in the culture. Because no longer will it be popular to be one of the culture. Used to be popular, you could be one of the culture. But now you take a biblical stand for life. You take a biblical stand for marriage. You take a biblical stand for water. You take a biblical stand and you going to be on the out. Unless you've made that decision in advance, unless you've decided in advance that there's certain boundaries I will not cross, then what you have to understand is that you are making a choice between the true God, the son of God, and the false gods who will not be there when your world crashes. So I'm going tell you that now because those false gods are not real. And so he says to them, he says, "I must judge the children." But he still gives them an out. He says, "Unless you repent, repentance would remove the fact of the of the judgment of God." But he makes it clear. I say to the rest, verse 24, who are in thyra who do not hold this teaching. Now the son of God, the one with the eyes of fire and the feet of bronze. Listen, I don't want to be misunderstood. If you take a stand for intolerance, where God is intolerance, there may be some negative things for those who live godly in Christ Jesus, the Bible says, will suffer. So, I know this could be weighty right now when you feel like, what is this going to mean for me on my job? And and I'm not talking about you going preaching on your job. I'm just talking about you having the divine standard on your work. And that's why he says, "Hold fast till I come." Verse 21, the one who overcomes and he who keeps my deeds until the end. To him I will give authority over the nations. You may get some of it now. You'll get most of it later. But he says, "I'm going to give you the ability to rule with me, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron as the vessels of the potter and are broken to pieces." So I shall receive authority from my father, I will give to him the morning star, that is intimacy with Christ based on Revelation 22. He that hath hath an ear, let him hear what the spirit of God says to the churches. What he's saying to you and me is to take your stand with love, with kindness, but with clarity. That there is a boundary here. And that boundary we do not cross. And when we do cross it, we repent and get back in line so that we can continue on and have the eyes of the son of God. Cuz just like the son of God saw you leave it, the eyes of God saw you come back to it. And when he sees you come back to it, he can now respond to you based on your present condition at whatever level he feels appropriate. And so we want a church that will take its stand for God regardless of whether we get more members, regardless of whether we have more money, regardless of whether we get more notoriety. It is the divine standard that we must hold to at all cost. [Music] Let me let [Music] That's right. [Music] [Music]
