GOD'S WORD GIVES YOU REVELATION. TheHoly Spirit gives you illumination SOTHAT THEY CAN BE WHATEVER TRANSFORMATIONin the direction that's needed for thedecisions that are made. THAT'S CALLEDTHE GRACE OF GOD WHEN HE MEETS YOU WHENYOU DIDN'T GO AWAY OFF BASE AND IT STILLSTEERS YOU BACK TO WHERE YOU'RE SUPPOSEDto be in the first place. That's thegoodness of God when we get back ontrack.>> [music]>> Life has a lot of twist and turns.A lot of things to navigate.A lot of decisions to be made. A lot ofroads to travel.And God has provided a tool.>> [snorts]>> A mechanism to help usto navigatethe twist and turns of life.THERE'S NOT MANY PEOPLE HERE WHO DOESN'TKNOW what it is to make a bad turn.To go in a wrong direction. To to headdown the wrong road.To regret the decision that was made.But God HAS A TOOL.WHEN THAT TOOL is ignored,then it is easyto get lost.In the 1 John 2,with the emptiness of this world order,this world is passing away.The world, like the second law ofthermodynamics,is going down.Things deteriorate. Things decay whenleft on their own.In verse 18 of 1 John 2,he says, "Children,it is the last hour and just as you haveheard the Antichrist is coming, even nowmany Antichrists have appeared.From this we know that it is the lasthour.HE SAYS WE KNOW THE ANTICHRIST ISCOMING. He's referring to that futureindividual who will come, set up hisshop in Israel as a false Christ inorder to rule the world prior to thesecond coming. He talks about this falseAntichrist to come, but then he says,but even nowthere many miniature Antichrists runningaround.Anti, againstChrist.He says that this world is full ofmany Antichristswho are out to deceive you to keep youfrom experiencing God's navigation ofyour life.Because they are against anti-Christ.They are against Christ and THIS THISANTICHRIST movementwants to rob Christians, cuz he startsout with children, meaning fellowChristians. He wants to rob you. Hecan't take away your salvation if you'rea believer, but he can rob you of yourintimacy, your fellowship, yourcloseness, your growth, your experienceof God.So he says what the Antichrist who iscoming is going to do,he has a lot of folk already working forhim now.He says even now they're Antichristwho want to subvertus.He says in verse 19, they went out fromus,but they were not really of us. For ifthey had been of us, they would haveremained with us, but they went out sothat it would be shown that they are notof us.THE US HE'S referring to is the apostleswho set forth the truth of scripture.He says, "They didn't remain with usbecause they weren't part of us."In other words,they rejectedthe biblical truth.And because they rejected the biblicaltruth,they didn't want to be associated withthe truth, so they didn't want to beassociated with us.You and I are living in a world thatdoesn't want the truth.And if you are holding on to the truth,they won't want you.And the more the liespenetrate the culture,and the more you hold on to the truth,the more the antichrist will separatefrom you.So, he says, "They wouldn't hang with usbecause they would not go along with thebiblical narrative that we wereentrusted to give."These are also called in scripture falseprophets.In 2 Corinthians,chapter 11,Paul says this about that group.He's talking to the Corinthian churchabout the same kind of deception. Hesays in verse 13,"For such men are false apostles,deceitful workers,disguising themselves as apostles ofChrist.No wonder, for even Satan disguiseshimself as an angel of light.Therefore, IT IS NOT SURPRISING IF HISservants also disguise themselves asservants of righteousness, whose endwill be according to their deeds."He says the antichrist put on thedisguise.And they look like they're for Christ.But they're after OR THEY'RE CARRYINGOUT THE PROGRAM OF THE DEVILWHILE LOOKING LIKE they're for theprogram of God.But he SAYS YOU CAN ALWAYS SPOT THEMWHEN YOU BRING THE truth of God's wordcuz THEY WON'T WANT THAT.THEY WANT TO LOOK the part until they'reexposed with scripture.They're false apostles.So, he's talking about the deceptionand this is why you need a guidedsystem.THIS IS WHY YOU NEED SOMETHING THAT willsteer you, me, and us in a world that'srejecting God while still using hisname.A world THAT WANTS TO DISGUISE ITSELF inspiritual language using words like loveand tolerance and unity and faith andall the Christianesewhile injecting it with false meaning.He says this is the anti [clears throat]against Christ.And I want you to be protected by thatbecause if the antichrist get to you,they're going to deceive you and whenthey deceive you, you're going to getlost.So, God has come up with a systemthat will keep usguidedin a misguided world.He talks about that system in twoverses.In verse 20,AFTER TALKING ABOUT THE ANTICHRIST, HESAYS, "But you have an anointingfrom the holy one and you all know."Verse 27,"As for you, the anointing which youreceived from him abides in you.And you have no need for anyone to teachyou,but as his anointing teaches you aboutall things and is true and is not a lieand just as it has taught you you abidein him.He introduces us to the anointing.He says you have the anointing.Every ChristianHAS BUILT INSIDE OF THEM WHAT HE callsthe anointing.SO THE QUESTION IS WHAT IS THE ANOINTINGAND HOW DOES THE anointing worksince it's a system that every Christianhas?Now John chapter 14, St. John chapter 14verse 17 saysthat the world has not received it.If you have Direct TV but you don't havea receiverthen that means you're not going to pickup on the signal.So he says the world does not have thecapacity to pick up on the signal. Itdoes not have the receiver.But you have the anointing.You have the receiver.If you have a receiverbut it's not onyou won't pick up the signal.If you have a receiver and you're notusing it you won't pick up the signal.So every Christian has the anointingbut every Christian's system is not on.So every Christian doesn't benefit fromthe anointing, okay?So what IS THE ANOINTING?HE SAYS HE CALLS IT IN verse 20 the holyone.The anointingis the work of the Holy Spiritto bring clarity in the life of thebelieverto help them navigate their movementthrough the world.The world is that system headed by Satanthat leaves God out, but you have THEANOINTING.YOU HAVE a system inside of you that'sdesigned to be a navigational device asyou work your way through a world fullof antichrist who want to pull you awayfrom intimacy with God.And you have the anointing. So, onceyou're saved, you have the anointing.Now, that is the presence of the HolySpirit whose job it is to be thenavigational device for your movement inlife, your decision-making, yourchoices, your governance, your guidance.It is a navigationalsystem.Let me go Let me explain how this works.Every person is made up of three parts.You have A BODYTHAT ALLOWS you to interface with theexternal world through your five senses.Your five senses allows you to navigatethis world order.You have a soul.While the body helps youto interface with the world,your soul allows you to interface withyourself.Your self-knowledge is your soul.You are not who you are because you havea body.You are who you are because you have asoul.Cuz once the soul leaves the body, thebody dies. The body still exists, butthere's no life there cuz the soul isnot there.So, you know that you are here rightnow. You know you are listening to meright now because you have a soul. Thebody is just the vehicle to get theinformation there, but you're able toreceive it because you have a lifeprinciple which the Bible calls thesoul, okay?There's a third component to life.That is the spirit.The body allows you to communicate withthe external world.The soul allows you to communicate withyourself.The spirit is designed to give you thecapacity to communicate with God.Once you are converted and come toChrist, the Bible says your spirit ismade alive and you have received theanointing.With your conversioncame a receiver.WITH YOUR SALVATION WAS EMBEDDED Areceiver called the anointing. That isthe work of the Holy Spirit immediatelyinfiltrated your spirit.WHEN YOU GOT SAVED, IT'S NOT YOUR SOULthat got saved. I know that's how we sayit, my soul got saved. No, when you gotsaved, your spirit got saved.So you are immediatelywhat received a receiver that gave youthe capacity to make contact with God.THE SOULTHAT YOU AND I ARE BORN with isdistorted.Our soul is distorted. Now, a lot ofthings lead to that distortion.Maybe how we were raised distorted oursoul. So the soul gets distorted for alot of different reasonsand it's the job of the anointing,which is in the spirit,to infiltrate the soul to bring it intoorder.So the spirit is to expand in the soul,the anointing is expanding in the soulto bring it out from out of alignmentinto alignment.The more the soul gets into alignmentbecause of the anointing, the better thebody functions CUZ THE BODY ONLY DOESWHAT the soul tells it. But the soul isdistorted. If the soul is distorted,then the body's not going to do whatit's supposed to do cuz it gets badinformation. But once the anointingspreads,once the anointing takes place,then the soul can get the rightinformation.So much of ourtravelor bad navigation in life is because thereceiver is not being allowed to talk tothe soul.He says, "You have the receiver."I love the way Paul talks about it. 1Corinthians chapter 2.He says,in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 beginningwith verse 9,"But just as it is written, things whichthe eye have not seen and the ear hadnot heard, and which have not beenentered into the heart of man, all thatGod has prepared for those who love him.For to us God revealed them through hisspirit, for the spirit searches allthings, even the depths of God."So the anointing, which is the work ofthe Holy Spirit in your human spirit, hesays it searches God and it searches Godin order to bring that information toyou.So it's a Google search device that isimplanted in your spirit that is to givethe information to your soul. That isthe anointing.So this anointing, like a dimmer switch,I mentioned this last time,turns the light up in the soul so thatyou begin to see things MORE CLEARLY.YOU HAVE A DIMMER switch if one has beenplanted there.But you know you can have it and it beturned down.So you're still not seeing anything eventhough you have the switch.The goal of the anointing is to turn upthe switch so that you're seeing thingsmore clearly in the soul so that you'rebetter to execute with the body.So you have the anointing, but theenemies of God, the antichrist, want tokeep you from knowing you have itcalled the indwelling of the Holy Spiritor keep you from utilizing itby keeping you operating on humanprinciples. HE GOES ON IN 1 Corinthianschapter uh2 verse uh 16 he says, "You've beengiven the mind of Christ."That is, you have now planted within youthe capacity to perceive things fromGod's point of view as you live in aworld of antichrist who want to steeryou away from that point of view or tochange your direction.How powerful is this anointing? Verse 27says, "And you have no need for anyoneto teach you."So what he's saying isyou don't need a non-Christianframe of referencefor your decision-making.Cuz you have something they don't have.You have the anointing. So when he saysyou don't need to have a man to teachyou, you don't need someone who rejectsa divine worldview to be your instructorwho you follow.So he says, "You don't need instructionfrom the antichrist world system toteach you because you have theanointing. You have a navigationalsystem that's built into your spiritthat if it expands into your soul willnavigate.Now, I told the storybefore when I was going to Fort Worth.I had a speaking engagement at 7:00 inFort Worth.Remember, I don't use a navigationalsystem.So, I told my assistant to print out thedirections. I looked down and said, "Godown 20." And it told me the exit. So, II went down 2020 West, got off the exit, turned left.So, I'm driving and I'm looking for thechurch I'm supposed to be at at 7:00.And I'm driving and I'm driving and I'mdriving.Now, I'm in the country.There's cows, there's pigs, there'ssheep, there's chickens.So, if there's a church out here, Dr.Doolittle is the pastor cuz there's I'mtelling you I'm in the country.So,something is wrong. Something is wrong.I turn back aroundand I pull into a 7-Eleven.I pull into a 7-Eleven and I go ask thegentleman. I said, "Do you know wherethis church is?"Oh, he says, "Yes, it's a it's it's it'sit's a it's a couple of blocks down onon the right."I get back in my car.I go down a couple of blocks on theright.There is no church.There's no church. There's a store.So, I'm at a light.I wind down my window to the man next tome.He winds down his window.I said, "I'm looking for this church.Do you know where this church is?" Oh,he said, "Yeah, just go down to the nextlight, turn left, you'll see it.I go down to the next light.I TURN LEFT.IF THERE IS A CHURCH HERE, it's a housechurch cuz there's nothing BUTRESIDENCES HERE. JUST HOUSES HERE.SO, I I AM I am totally lost listeningto people.And I'm listening to people WHO SUPPOSEDTO KNOW CUZ THEY LIVE THERE.SO, I'M BELIEVING THEM BASED ON THEIRWORD. AND I'M LOST AS A JAYBIRD.I LOOK BACK ON MY notes that was rightthere on the seat and it said, "When youget off the exit, turn right."I got off and turned left.It's called leaning to my ownunderstanding. I got off and turnedleft.>> [applause]>> And I'm lost as a jaybird. I'm I'm I'mgoing the wrong way and then I'mlistening to people and going wronger.That's not a word, but you get what I'msaying. I'm going wronger.Just listening to PEOPLE CUZ THEY SOUNDLIKE THEY KNOW WHAT they were talkingabout.You know my problem was?My problem wasSee, the the pastor gave the directions.So, he should know where his church is.So, the pastor gave the direction. Ifollowed him to a pointbut then I decided I figured the restout on my own.And I was lost.When I looked at the paper, it said,"Get off, turn right."I turned left. I turned I went back towhere I was supposed to turn right.Church was one block up the street.What I'm trying to say is when theanointing gets used, it saves you a lotof time.>> [applause]>> Saves you a lot of time.He says, "You have received THEANOINTING."THE NAVIGATIONAL SYSTEM that is designedto flow from the spirit into the soul tobe God's guidance systemto be ableto detect what's legitimate and what'sillegitimate.Now, the reason this is important,you know, we're all looking at the newsnow because of everything that'shappeningandif you lookon cable,you know, the CNN or Fox or MSNBC,you're looking at national news. You'reseeing they're talking about the bigstories.When you go to4 or 5 or 11,well, now that's local news.They will discuss national issues, butthen they'll bring it down to what'shappening more locally in the city or inthe various communities.My sermon today is national news.This is national news cuz you all arehearing the same thingbroadly.But when you leave, you're going to needlocal news.Cuz you need stuff that applies to whereyou're going,what you're doing,things in your life, things in yourfamily, things in your career, thingswith your finances. You're going to needthings personalized to you.The Biblegives you national news.The Holy Spirit gives you local news.His job is to take the truth of Godbased on the Bible and from the Bible,BUT TO APPLY IT TO YOUR UNIQUEEXPERIENCE.And he localizes or personalizesthe application of the Bible to yourpersonal situation.But if the receiver is not on,or you are not attuned TO IT.OR TOO MUCH OF the world's static getson the line. You ever been lookingif you have Direct TV or one of thoseone of those satellite systemsand there's a stormand it says searching for signal?Uh it's you got it on, but there's beenan interruption in the atmosphere. So,it you can't pick it up even though yoursystem is on.So, you can have the anointing. You canhave it on, but you got so muchinterference from the wrong source thatis blocking you picking up the signalthat God wants to say. The anointing iswhat the Holy Spirit does in the spiritof the believer to transfer theinformation to the soul so that the bodypicks up the signal for the negotiationof your uniquenessin life. Uh my plan wasn't to be inDallas. My plan was to go to WinonaLake, Indiana to Grace TheologicalSeminary.I applied. I'd been accepted. Uh it wasnow I'm finishing my last semester incollege to go up to Indiana to awell-known seminary in Indiana. That wasthe plan and I had done everything toprepare for that. Went up, found theapartment, knew where we would be goingfor seminary.Done.Except in my last semester, near the endof that semester, a professor comesacross my pathand he says to me, "Had you ever thoughtabout Dallas Seminary?"And I you know, I knew about it, but Ino, I hadn't because I I was targetedtoward Indiana.I I said, "No, but I you know, I thinkI'm good. I'm I'm going to GraceSeminary." He said,"You know, something's telling me youreally should be going to Dallas. I'lltell you what, uh if I if if I pay theapplication fee, will you at least makethe application?" Oh, I said, "You goingto pay for it? I can write themwords on a paper." So, he just threw outpaying the APPLICATION FEE. SO, I filledout the application, he wrote the checkfor the fee, and I sent it in. A weeklater, they wrote back and said, "Youhave now been accepted at DallasSeminary." That led to a whole thinkingand a whole checking and a whole findingout. So, WHAT THE HOLY SPIRIT DID WAS HEBROUGHT SOMEBODY ACROSS MY PATH WHO GAVEME AN idea I wasn't thinking about thatwind up registering in my soul, andthat's why I'm standing up here beforeYOU TODAY. BECAUSE THE ANOINTING changesthings and maneuvers things and twistthings and turn things, BUT AND HE DOESIT THROUGH A LOT OF WAYS. HE DOES ITTHROUGH circumstances and people ANDSTRATEGIES AND THOUGHTS HE BRINGS TO YOUAND THINGS YOU DIDN'T THINK OF, BUTTHAT'S WHAT THE ANOINTING DOES. SO, TOthe degree that it is free to expressitself, you can NOW HAVE GOD'SNAVIGATIONAL systemmoving you through the manipulations ofa world that wants to keep you,Antichrist, from being able to make thatlink.And you, if you're Christian, have theanointing. And then he says, "And justas it has been taught you," verse 27,"you abide in him."There's our word again, abide. Hang out.The more you hang out with the Lord,the better the system works.Abide meansdon't just come to church on Sunday.Hang out with me. Abide means to hangout, stay, or remain. So, I want you tohang out with me. I want us to be roaddogs. I want us to roll together. I wantto be included in all of life, and ifyou will abide, hang out with me, theanointing will spread. He says, "Youhave the anointing, but you experienceit by the abiding."So, the more you're hanging out with me,the more you'll hear from me. Now,little children, VERSE 28, ABIDE IN HIM.HANG OUT WITH HIM, SO that when heappears, we may have confidence and notshrink away from him in shame in hisappearing. In other words, IF YOU STARTUSING THE ANOINTING, he says, "WHEN HECOMES BACK, YOU WON'T be ashamed to seeit.">> [music][music]