Living Wisely Or Foolishly – Dr. Charles Stanley

Channel: In Touch Ministries

When making decisions, many people never consider the will of God. They decide what to do based purely on their preferences, emotions or what seems best at the time. However, to truly make good choices, we must base our decisions on the wisdom of God.

In this message, Dr. Stanley explains the difference between godly and human wisdom. Godly wisdom is the capacity to see things from God's viewpoint and respond according to the principles of Scripture. On the other hand, human wisdom is earthly, natural and demonic—it has no place in the believer's life. When it comes to making wise choices and experiencing God's best, obeying Him is always the best way to go.

This message is part of the series "Wisdom from Above."

TRANSCRIPT:

♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ CC by Aberdeen Captioning
1-800-688-6621  www.abercap.com male announcer: "In Touch,"
the teaching ministry of Dr. Charles Stanley. Reaching the world
with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Next on "In Touch,"
"Living Wisely or Foolishly." Dr. Charles Stanley: Why would a
city known for its great economy over all these
years go bankrupt? Why would they go bankrupt? Unwise decisions that probably
started years before. Why would a family choose to buy
a home, house that they know that they cannot afford, but
they're going to buy it anyway? Unwise decision. Why would a person marry just
for sexual fulfillment? Not thinking about other things. Unwise decision. Why would a person drink
alcoholic beverage in front of their children early in life,
leaving them an image of their dad sometimes being drunk? Thinking nothing of the
consequence, very unwise decision. When you think about the kind of
your--life that you're living, would you say that the decisions
that you're making are wise or unwise? I think about people who never
consider the will of God for their life. They make decisions based on
what they want, how they feel, what makes them feel good or
what other people think and never asking, "What's the
will of the Father?" Unwise, unwise decision. And we could go through life
thinking about all the decisions that people make. For example, they stack up
credit on their credit cards to the point that they know they
can't make the payments. Why do they do that? Unwise decisions. People make unwise decisions
because they leave out the most important thing in their life,
and that is the wisdom of Almighty God. What place does God have in
your decision-making process? Are you going to live it on your
own or are you going to be wise enough to seek the wisdom of God
before you make any decision? So, let me put it this way
right up front. Before you make any decision,
you should always ask this question: is this a--is this
the wisest thing to do? There is always an answer. Is this the wisest thing to do? Whether it's marriage or whether
it's something financial, or health, or
whatever it might be. Is this the wisest thing to do? That's always the right
question, whether it's major or minor: is this the
wisest thing to do? Somebody says, "Well, I don't
know what wisdom is." We're coming to that. But living wisely is
the best life. Wisdom is a gift from God. Living unwisely is a very
expensive lifestyle to every aspect of our life. So, when we turn to this passage
of Scripture in a few moments, what we really see Paul doing is
speaking to the people of his day, and those Corinthians,
Greeks; they thought they were the smartest folks in the world,
and probably were in many ways very wise, humanly speaking. But there's a difference between
human wisdom and godly wisdom. So, I want you to turn, if you
will, to First Corinthians chapter three and I want us to
look at the nineteenth verse beginning with that. And there are a number of verses
I want us to consider here. But I want you to keep asking
in your thinking, decisions that are before you today. That when you get home today
or maybe tomorrow or this week or the coming weeks,
decisions you have to make. Are they going to be wise
decisions or unwise? So, listen to what he says in
this third chapter, beginning in verse nineteen, and notice what
he says, "For the wisdom of this world is foolishness
before God." Look at that, "The wisdom
of the world is foolishness before God." The way the world thinks, apart
from God, "For it is written, 'He is the one who catches the
wise in their craftiness.'" You don't get away with it. There are consequences. And again, "The Lord knows
the reasonings of the wise, that they're useless." He says it's empty, they make
unwise decisions, "So then let no one boast in men. For all things belong to you." And so, he's comparing Paul and
Apollos, and so he says, "Whether Paul or Apollos or
Cephas or the world or life or death or things present
or things to come, all things belong to you." They were trying to compare
the preachers and so forth. Then he says--and look at this
next verse, "And you belong to Christ, and Christ
belongs to God." When I think about single verses
in the Scripture and how powerful they are and how full
of meaning they are, this rises to the top. Listen to this, "And you
belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God." Therefore, if we belong to
Christ, we belong to God. And I would ask you:
who do you belong to? You either belong to God through
Christ or you belong to the devil, one of the two. Some people say, "Well, I don't
believe in the devil." Unwise belief. So, with that in mind, I want us
to look at this whole issue of wise and unwise lifestyle and
how people are living it. And the Scripture distinguishes
it between here. So, let's look at wise living
for a moment. And the first thing we want to
do is define what do we mean by true, genuine wisdom? Godly wisdom,
that's real wisdom. Godly wisdom is viewing
things from God's viewpoint. How does He see them? And then responding to those
things on the basis of what the Word of God teaches. So, if I look at things from
God's viewpoint, where am I going to find that? I'm going to find that
in the Word of God. And so, a person who says, "I
don't have time for that Bible stuff," what you are saying is,
"I choose to live a very foolish life, I will make foolish
decisions in life, I will suffer consequence I would never have
dreamed of." If you're so smart that you
think you can live your life and live it happily or peacefully or
successfully or any other way apart from the teachings of the
Word of God, you are playing the fool. It is foolish, you cannot. And the Bible teaches it all
the way through Scripture by illustration where we
can never forget it. So, think about that. It's the capacity to view things
from God's viewpoint, and then on the basis of that,
respond to them accordingly. You're facing a decision,
what's the question? The question is this: what is
the wise thing to do? If I'm going to find that out, I
need to turn to the source of all wisdom, and that's
Almighty God. To leave God out of your life is
foolish, devastating, and only a fool who hears the Word of God
turns away, shuts their mind out, says, "I don't want any of
that," because you're not thinking wisely. You're thinking foolishly. So, when we look at this passage
of Scripture, and with that in mind, think about this:
God is omniscient. He knows everything. He knows about yesterday. He knows about today. He knows about tomorrow. He knows what happened yesterday
perfectly, you and I don't. We only know what humans
can know. God has absolute, total,
complete, infinite knowledge about every single thing. He's never behind because He
knows the past, present, and future. Nothing ever startles Him
or surprises Him. He knows perfectly before,
during, and afterwards. So, it is only wise to consult
one who knows everything and who has never said,
"Oh, I forgot. Oh, I never thought about that." You say, "Well, what
about so and so?" They went through this problem,
this heartache, this burden, this tragedy. Not without God knowing it. Not without God's plan. And what He allows oftentimes
is beyond my comprehension. But that's knowledge.
It's not beyond the wisdom and
the knowledge and the awesome plan of God. It's--the world's foolishness is
just that, it's foolish. They think they know when only
God knows. That's why believers
are set apart. We are a part of
the Body of Christ. We're set apart by God through
His Son, Jesus Christ, to do what? To allow Him to live His life
in and through us. We are, listen, we are the
walking children of the Living God whose names are in the
Lamb's Book of Life, who are eternally secure in Him, and who
have Him as our guide for every single day. We can come to Him and ask Him
about any decision that needs to be made and He is willing to
give us direction. But if you don't know Him, if
you think, you see, watch this. And I say this not to be
smart-aleck about it, not to be critical, but to tell the truth. That's the only thing I'm up
here for, to tell the truth. That if you live in disobedience
to God, what you're saying is, "I don't need omniscience. I don't need omnipotence. I don't need omnipresence. I can handle it. In this mixed up, crazy, sinful,
wicked, vile world, that is a foolish conclusion. A foolish conclusion. We all need Almighty God. All of us need Him every day. And so, when I look at these
passages and see what Paul said in this particular passage, he
says, "The wisdom of the world is foolishness," in
the eyes of God. Because you see, if you took
a grain of sand and put it over here, in all the beaches of
the world, that little grain of sand in all the beaches in
the world may be equal to our knowledge and understanding
and wisdom; apart from God, we don't have it. We don't have it. If you don't believe, look at
the society in which we live. Well, look at what's happening
to us every single day. You wake up one morning
and you hear this. Wake up the next morning,
you hear that. Let me ask you something: when's
the last time you looked at the television or read the newspaper
or heard anything about what's going on, you said, "Finally
a great day has arrived"? No. It's not true. So, what do Christian's do? Are we supposed to be worried
and frustrated and anxious and fearful and going to bed
wondering what's going to happen? No, we know what's
going to happen. Listen, we're sleeping in the
presence of Almighty God who never sleeps, who has all
power, all knowledge of every single thing. Listen, we are His children. How foolish to live apart from
Holy God who has made it possible to have everything we
need in Christ Jesus that's wise for us to have. So, human reason is deficient. It takes godly wisdom to live
the kind of life that I know every single person really
wants deep down inside. And when we're living wisely,
we're going to seek His guidance about all these things. And if you'll think about this,
a person who is spiritually wise, that is a person who is
spiritually wise, they're going to be able to see things with
their eyes others do not see. They're going to be able to hear
things with their ears others don't hear. This is why somebody can say
something to you very persuasively or very arrogantly
and you're a child of God walking in His Spirit, and you
know what they say? They send two messages. Here's what you heard them say.
Here's what they said. And there's a lot of difference. Children of God who are walking
wisely are, listen, we have the wisdom of God because that's His
desire and will for our lives. And the problem is, if we ignore
that, then we get in trouble and we think, "Oh God,
where were You?" And God is saying, "I've
been here all along. You weren't listening. You listened to other people. You decided what you wanted, not
what I wanted, because I know what's best for you." So, when we're living wisely,
we will live a certain way. And what is it? In essence, to make it simple,
when we're living wisely, we're going to be able to walk through
the deepest, darkest valleys of life. We're going to walk through
paths that we think there'd be no way to walk. We're going to be able to walk
through situations and circumstances and heartaches
that we would never think we could ever endure. But when you're walking wisely,
here's what happens. God says, "This is the next
step, and this is the next step, and this is the next step, and
this is the next step." You know why He doesn't tell us
the whole story? He knows we can't--you can't
even fathom it sometimes. You couldn't stand to know where
God may lead you. So, what does He do?
Step by step. And so, we ask Him for, "Lord,
what shall I do in this decision?" This is the step. "What shall I do in this?" And you see, if we just decided
we're going to do it ourselves, we just go plowing through the
difficulty and the hardship and the pain. We find ourselves
making mistakes. God, remember, He loves us
enough to keep us on the path. He loves us enough to keep our
eyes on things that are real and true and genuine. But then there's the other life.
There's the people
who live foolishly. So, I want you to turn, if you
will to, let's turn to James, over to James, and I want you
to look at this passage. In this third chapter and verse
thirteen, he asks this question. And it's similar to what Paul
asked, "Who among you is wise and understanding?
Let him show by his good behavior his deeds in his
gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy,
selfish ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant
and so lie against the truth. This wisdom is not that
which comes down from above, but is earthly, natural,
and demonic." Now, I want you to think
about this for a moment. There are two different
kinds of wisdom. There's the wisdom of God and
there's the wisdom that comes through man's thinking. And I want you to notice
how he describes this. He says, "This wisdom is
described in the following fashion.
It is earthy, natural,
and demonic. Now, what does
he mean by that? Here means by earthy, that it's
limited to what man can do. It's limited to man's reasoning
and his thinking and his attempts and his
accomplishments in life. That's how limited that is. Well, how, listen, how
smart is man today? We might be able to invent
things and go to the moon and this, that, and the other, but
can't get along with each other. And so, we can think about all
the things that man's wisdom and his knowledge and understanding
without God can create. Can't do anything without God.
It's earthy. So that's one part of the--
of wisdom. And then secondly, he says,
it is natural. That is, we all have a
naturalness in us, and that is that part of us that--that part
of us that does not want to obey God, that part of us that
is subject to temptation. That part of us that desires
our will and our way. You may not yield to it, but all
of us have that naturalness in us. Some people call it
a sin nature. Call it what you want to,
but all of us have it. And so, he says those who are
walking unwisely, their wisdom is earthy, doesn't get anywhere. And secondly, it's natural,
it's sensual. It relates to the fallen nature,
and if you'll recall in First Corinthians chapter two, verse
fourteen, he says, "But a natural man does not accept the
things of the Spirit of God, they are foolishness to him, and
he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually
appraised." So, you get into a discussion
with somebody who doesn't believe what you believe about
the Lord Jesus Christ or God or holy things. And you know what, we say,
"Well, why can't you believe that?" And you know why they can't? Because God said they couldn't. Apart from the Spirit of God,
they will not be able to understand the things of God. Man's knowledge, it's earthy,
it's very limited. Secondly, it's natural,
and that is it's corrupt. But then he says, for example,
listen to this: it's demonic. Its root is found in
Satan himself. So, go back to Genesis
chapter three. Everything was absolutely
perfect, and Satan convinced Eve. She believed a lie, and look at
the consequences. There are many people today, and
you may be one of them, you've listened to the devil's lie. You've listened to Him say
to you, "You don't need God. Those church people are weak. You can handle it. You're smart enough
to handle it. You've got position, you've got
money, you've got intellect, you got talent. You don't need that religious
stuff at all." Mark it down.
That is the voice of the devil. The Word of God says it is
demonic. It deals with your naturalness
and that earthiness a part of you. And if you listen to Satan's
lies, He's always going to tell you, "Well, this is
the easy way." The issue is this: what is
the wisest thing to do? When your children come to you
and they ask you, "Well, what should I do about this,
that, and the other?" What do you say to them? "Well, let me think about it." Or do you say to them, "No."
Well, why not?
"Because I said so." Well, why don't you say to them,
"I've been thinking about that, and my conclusion is it's not
the wisest thing to do." One thing we need to instruct
our children to do is to ask that question: what is the wise
thing to do? Not what is everybody
else doing? What's the wisest thing to do? What, in other words,
what does God see? On the basis of His omniscience
of knowing everything, omnipotence, having all power,
omnipresence being in--he's in the middle of everything
you're dealing with. The question is: what is
the wisest thing to do? What is the wisest thing to do? Listen, sometimes the wisest
thing for you to do, nobody will agree with it. But you know what? Remember all their knowledge
together can't equal the wisdom of God. You, listen, you can't
ever go wrong. You cannot ever go wrong
obeying God, never!
Never! So just because you don't
understand it doesn't mean that it's not right. The wisdom of God who has
all wisdom, knows all things about all people. And I could just spend the rest
of the afternoon telling you, giving you examples that flip to
my mind about times that I've obeyed God and times I haven't. And it's all--it all goes back
to what is the wisest thing to do? Now, can you tell me a better
question than that? Not really, because therein
is Almighty God. And so, what he does, he shows
us here in this passage of Scripture, in James,
here's the difference. Look at this in this third
chapter, he says in verse thirteen, "Who among you is wise
and understanding? Let him show by his good
behavior his deeds in his gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy,
selfish ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant
and so lie against the truth." Look at this, this is a group of
people who think they're wise, "This wisdom is not that which
comes down from above, but is earthly, natural,
and demonic." And you and I live around
people, and work around them, that's true of them. They think they have
the right answer. They leave God out of it, and
in their arrogance, they try to prove to you why they're right. Now, they may have position
and talent and skill, intellect and finances. They may have all of that. Does that make them
wiser than you? No. They may be smart in many areas,
but when you leave God out of your life, you're not
smart at all. That's just demonic, and that
falls in the category of living your life earthy, natural,
and demonic. Look at that: jealousy,
self-ambition. And if you'll notice here on
down a little bit further, he says, "But the wisdom that's
from above is first," listen, to this, "pure." Look at that. God's wisdom is pure.
That means it is
absolutely perfect. Did you get that? It is absolutely perfect wisdom. It's, "Pure, and peaceable," his
wisdom will bring you peace, "gentle," there's nothing harsh
about it, "reasonable," listen, from God's viewpoint, "full of
mercy and good fruits, unwavering without hypocrisy." That's the wisdom of God. Listen, would you not agree
that it's foolish to choose something else? Look at that passage, "The
wisdom from above," that's God's wisdom, "pure, peaceable,
gentle, reasonable, full of mercy, good fruits, unwavering,
without hypocrisy." That's the kind of life
I want to live. Amen? Now, what did he say up here,
"Jealousy, selfish ambition, disorder, and every evil thing." Only two choices in life, you
can choose to live wisely or you can choose to live unwisely. And may I say this? You've already made that choice. Wherever you are, you're walking
in the pathway of the wise or you're walking in the
pathway of the unwise. Change paths if you're
walking unwisely. Listen, you're not smart enough. You may think you are,
but you're not. Apart from Almighty God
through the saving person of Jesus Christ, who forgives us
of our sin, cleanses of our sin, writes their name in the Lamb's
Book of Life, has a will for us and lives presently within us
through His Holy Spirit. He will give us wisdom in every
single decision we make in life. There is no other way to live. You can trust Him. He's not going to change on
you about anything. You have two choices to live out
your life: wisely, living obediently before Him,
living in wisdom. Or you can live foolishly,
convince a lot of people, do a lot of things, go a lot of
places, have a lot of stuff. Then you're going to die. And my friend, when the last
seconds of your life come, I have a strong feeling you're
going to wish you had listened. The most tragic thing you can do
is die without Christ. You know why? Because the consequences
are eternal. May not live the best life
in the world as a Christian. May not have a lot of stuff. May not have any degrees
behind your name. May not have any notoriety. Most people never know you,
name's not in the newspaper, TV, and all that stuff,
but you live for God. You've walked obediently
before Him. You see, God's values are not
the same as man's. What He thinks is absolutely
awesome is not what the world thinks. So, you make up your mind. You going to live wisely? Or you're going to
live foolishly? You'll be wise if you choose
Christ and His way of life. And that's my prayer for you. Father, how grateful we are
that You've made it simple. And knowing that You loved us
enough to send Jesus to die for us and pay our
sin debt in full. You must have an
awesome love for us. And so, we want to be obedient
to You because we're the ones who end up profiting from that
in so many ways. And I pray that every person who
listens to this message will think, think honestly and
realize that they've only heard the truth. "It is appointed unto man once
to die, and after this the judgment." But all sin can be forgiven
by asking and believing and trusting. We love you, dear Father.
We thank You for the awesome
gift of Your grace toward all of us, in
Jesus's name, amen. ♪♪♪
