Wow, man. Good to see you guys. Y'all
doing all right?
>> Is this the same crowd that was with me
in the morning?
>> Oh, y'all the same was this mother. This
is the little homie Marshall right
there. Shout out Marshall. Hey, let's
give it up for Marshall, man. Marshall
in the house.
Young soldier. How old is he?
>> 10 years old, man. 10 years old and he's
about to be a beast in the kingdom. All
right. textual corruption in the Islamic
traditions. I'm gonna give you guys the
greatest Islamophobic argument of all
time.
Absolutely. Every one of you guys, when
you guys leave here, you guys are going
to be the top most known Islamophobes
in all of the UK.
All right, that I can guarantee. Why?
Because whenever you and hear this,
whenever you quote Al Quran or you quote
the Sunna, meaning the Hadith, you are
quoting Islamophobic material.
Whenever you quote Muhammad, that's
Islamophobic material. When you quote
the words of Allah, those are
Islamophobic material. When you quote
the companions of Muhammad who loved the
prophet peace be upon him, that's
Islamophobic material.
You guys are going to be I heard that.
[laughter]
You guys are going to be quoting
Islamophobic material. You guys excited
about this?
>> All right, good. The Quran has been
perfectly preserved right down to the
letter, word for word, dot for dot, and
all that good stuff. Right now, we all
know who Dr. Jay Smith is, right? That's
the OG, man. That's the OG. Now, he and
Hatun TSH and others, man, they have
pioneered some excellent work in
bringing different Qurans to uh to Hyde
Park to Speaker's Corner, you know, and
it just me, my little self before I was
little guy logic, I was just fascinated.
I was like, I want to do that.
I want to do that, but I'm going to have
to become an Islamophobe.
And I prayed. I thought about it. And I
said, you know what? I'm I'm okay with
this. I am okay with becoming an
Islamophobe.
I'm I'm fine with it. And so what I
started to do was I started to collect
the hadith. Now what they do is they
show you the different variant Quran
since they all say one. There's only one
Quran ever, right? And so they show
physical evidence like look we got
multiple 27 of them 30 of them bodium
all these different Qurans. But what's
fascinating ladies and gentlemen is that
it's not just the Qurans you can show
them but you can quote to them in their
own sources that there are different
Qurans even back then. And that is what
I'm going to show you today. I did an
entire week, me and my boy Life. We did
a a whole uh live stream week dedicated
to this session not too long ago, just a
couple weeks ago. And it was so fun. It
was so fun. I I was a bot. I was an
Islamophobic bot. I was using the same
stuff. I was on a God logic script. I
know we have the Dawa script. I had a
God logic script, y'all. And I stuck to
it because it was undefeated. Okay. So,
I'm gonna give you guys the same thing.
How many of you guys know about the
story about the first time the Quran was
compiled into an actual manuscript? You
guys know about this?
>> Good. We have an educated group. All
right. Now, let me just test you this
and wife, not you. What is the hadith
that talks about this guys? The first
compilation of the Hadith by Abu Bakr.
Does anybody know the Hadith?
>> That is excellent.
That's a for That's a for sure
Islamophobe back there.
Ain't no way. No. Hey, look. Muslims
don't know that, but Islamophobes, they
know the Islamic sources. I'm telling
you.
I'm telling you.
All right. So, we all are familiar with
this. Sai Bukari 4986. Quite lengthy,
but I'm just going to go ahead and u
take the relevant parts here. Now, I'm
going to try to Hey, Alistister. Is it
possible that I can expand this like it
was when we first had it? Cuz I It's too
small for me, Mike.
All right, Alistister's not.
So, here we have it.
Sahib Bukari, ladies and gentlemen,
4986.
And it go we have Abu Bakr Assad sent
for me. This is Zab speaking. Zav says,
"Abu Bakr sent for me when the people of
Yo Mama, since they want to talk about
mamas now, huh? Had been killed." Man,
you guys, what a good sense of humor out
there. That's good. The people at the uh
of of your mama had been killed. Um, a
number of people who fought against
Musima
and found Omar bin al-Katab sitting with
him. Right. Abu Bakr said to me, Umar
has come to me and said casualties were
heavy among the Quran
i.e. those who knew the Quran by heart
on the day of the battle of Yo Mamas.
And I am afraid that more heav
casualties may take place among the
Korah on the other battlefields. Here's
the important part, ladies and
gentlemen. Whereby a large part of
Alquran may be lost. Now,
this is uh I'm a thinking person and
usually us Islamophobes are. We like to
think. We uh critically analyze things.
Um, and so my question is, if the Quran
is perfectly preserved, and it's
perfectly preserved through the miracle
of memory, why in the world were they
afraid that the Quran could be lost if
just a few people was dying off who
memorized the Quran?
Maybe it's because not everybody
memorized it, y'all. But the Quran is
supposed to be so simple, so easy.
Everybody's reciting it. Everybody
memorizes it. Correct? Then how could it
be lost? See, the Muslims today will
tell us it can't be lost. It's
impossible. But the companions of
Muhammad, the Sahaba, those who lived in
the time, say, "Yeah, it can be lost.
Let's do something about it. Let's do
something about it because memory ain't
all that great anymore." So what do they
what do they do? What do they do?
Because memory, they can't rely on
memory anymore because people are dying
off. So what happens? Therefore, I
suggest to you, Abu Bakr, that you order
that the Quran be collected.
I said to Umar, this is Abu Bakr
talking. How can you do something which
Allah's apostle
did not do? Hold on a second. Now, this
is bidda. My Arabic speakers out there,
any Arabic speakers out there, Father
Mike, what is bidda? What does that
mean? What is bidda?
>> Bida means heresy. Heresy, innovation,
BIDDA. YOU'RE MAKING STUFF UP. YOU'RE
DOING stuff on your own. Right? So,
according to Abu Bakr, Muhammad never
did this. Why are you telling me to do
something that the prophet himself never
did? So, what does this tell us, ladies
and gentlemen? Muhammad never ever ever
ever had a collected Quran in a book.
Never.
This happens after he dies. So, here's
an interesting thing though because
won't Muslims come to you and say, "Hey,
uh, Paul never met Jesus. How can he
write about Jesus?"
Did Did Jesus ever see your New
Testament?
Did Did Jesus was Jesus there looking
over Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and
what they wrote over the epistles of
Paul, over the epistles of John? Were
was he there double-checking?
No, he wasn't. And so therefore, your
book's corrupted. Case closed. Right? As
long as you don't read our sources.
Don't read our stuff. Okay? And matter
of fact, it was a mistake. Allah never
told them to translate this. This wasn't
supposed to hit the masses. So, we see
Muhammad was never there to doublech
checkck this collected Quran that these
mere men put together themselves by
their own wisdom. Interesting stuff,
isn't it? Let's keep going. I love the
story. It's really good. It's a nice
setup. Um, so Umar then goes on and
says, "By Allah," now I imagine this.
I'm I'm a visual person. I believe he
did this to to Abu Bakr. He said, "By
Allah,
this here is a good deed." That's how I
imagine him talking, you know. Um, I
think they all talk like that. I've just
I've seen it. Uh Umar kept on urging me
to accept this proposal till the idea
which Umar had realized. Um I'm sorry,
did I read this wrong? Umar kept on
urging me to accept his proposal till
Allah opened my chest for it and I began
to realize the good in the idea which
Omar had realized. Then Abu Bakr said to
me, so now Zenav is jumping in. You are
a wise young man and we do not have any
suspicion about you and you you used to
write the divine inspiration for Allah's
messenger. So Zaba used to be one of
Muhammad's scribes. It then goes on to
say, "So you should search for the
fragmentaryary scripts of the Quran and
collect it in one book." Now I'm
confused about THIS PART TOO. WHY do
they have to search for it if they all
memorize it? Why do they have to go get
it? Don't they all just have it up there
in their hearts? Don't they just recite
it together? Why do they have to send
Zen Thab to go get it? Now watch watch
what Zabin responds with. This is this
always kills me. Um
he says, "By Allah, if they had ordered
me to shift one of the mountains, it
would not have been heavier for me than
this ordering me to collect the Quran.
In other words, why me, man? [snorts]
Why? Why you got to send me to do? Now,
here's another point. Notice this is not
an easy task.
The Quran is so spread out. It's so
split up. Not everybody memorizes it.
It's pieced up with different
individuals that it is extremely
difficult to collect the entire thing in
one manuscript, in one book. Not
everybody had it memorized. Not even
everybody had the whole thing. Isn't
that amazing? When we look at the
Islamic sources, they tell us a
completely different history than what
the Muslims tell us today. The Muslims
tell us that the Quran has always been
the same, has always been a united
front, never any difference. It's all
been easy to understand, easy to know,
easy to memorize, easy to uh to to ac uh
be accessible. But Zade says it would
have been easier to move a mountain than
to get to Quran all in one piece.
Mashallah.
I told you, man. I love the story. I'm
telling you. Now, let's see what happens
here. So, he gets convinced. Let's skip
down a little bit.
So, by law, this is a good project. He
kept urging me yada yada yada. Here it
is. So I started looking for the Quran
and collecting it from what it was
written on palm stalks, thin white
stones, and also from the men who knew
it by heart. Wait, hold on. Also from
the men who knew it by heart. So very
clearly not everybody knew it by heart.
There was a few
till I found the last verse of the of
Surba. Now this is interesting with Abu
this guy Alanssari
and I did not here it is I did not find
it with anybody other than him. Now hold
on a second. Now Dr. J. Smith you can
cooperate this for me. Haven't you heard
Muslims tell us that if Muslims are
reciting the Quran in the masid and one
makes a mistake then another Muslim can
correct that Muslim? You've heard that
before? That's correct. Okay. Nice. Got
it from the doctor himself. This is what
they would tell us. My question is,
who would correct this guy if he got it
wrong?
He's the only one who knew who knew the
verse. So, who would correct him? How do
we know that his rendition of the verse
was correct?
See, I'm an Islamophobe, so I think
I like to think about these things. This
doesn't really make sense along with the
narrative that I've been given. Does
this make sense to y'all? Not really.
Not really ringing the bell. Okay. So,
yeah. Okay. We on the same page. We're
all the other folks. Good. So, this
verse was only found with one person.
So, there's no way to doublech checkck
whether this guy was correct. And guess
what? Muhammad wasn't there either.
Maybe there was a new messenger after
Muhammad to double check this. Maybe Abu
Bakr or somebody. Who knows? Maybe Umar.
Umar came up with three verses in the
Quran. So, maybe he was there to, you
know, make this work. So, let's see
here. They quote the verse yada yada
yada. It says then the complete
manuscripts of the Quran remained with
Abu Bakr till he died. Then with Umar
till the end of his life, then with
Hapsa, the daughter of Umar. So question
really quick. Did Muhammad ever ever see
this manuscript?
>> Marshall? No. Okay. Marshall says no. I
believe Marshall. So no, it did. He
never saw it. It did not happen. So then
why is it that you you know in this
recent 1B20, Kora uh Kora the Explorer,
she said that Why are y'all laughing?
How rude.
Kora the Explorer said that the Huffsa
manuscript that was passed down from Abu
Bakr to Umar, then to Hafsa, Umar's
daughter, that that used to be with
Muhammad.
That's what she said. Now I imagine her
response would be okay perfect
and then we get a non-response mashallah
but this is the story here ladies and
gentlemen so now we understand this
first manuscript we understand uh the
first collection of this beautiful Quran
which I have never seen I don't know if
anybody else can see it I think it might
be in the same uh mountain cave that the
might be found in who knows
but this is it. This is a lot of
interesting details. See when you look
at this stuff carefully and in detail
start questioning these things asking
these questions and these are questions
guys bring to the Muslims they will have
no answer but they will say words
okay I'm telling you they know how to do
that very well they will say words but
they will have no answer no real
response okay we all know about the
burning incident correct
>> yes
>> oh that's our that's our favorite
hadith, ain't it? Them Qurans was burnt
up, wasn't it? Listen, they was having a
Quran barbecue, but they they say David
Wood's a problem. They was over there
burning Qurans before David Wood
existed.
That's cor that's crazy to me. I mean,
shoot, [sighs] Um should have been
stoned or whatever it was. But here's
the interesting thing about this is that
Uman
had a particular group of people that he
had come up with this new type of
manuscript that they had to uh create.
We see the here's the issue.
Zen Davin again he narrates says Abu
Bakr sent for the uh sent for when oh
sorry this actually didn't translate.
See that was just a test. Okay. I was
just making sure y'all was paying
attention there.
Okay. All right. So, did it do this
twice?
Huh? Looks like it. It looks okay. How
do we get this twice? That's crazy. You
see how Eliss works?
Elbl always trying to mess up our flow,
man. But he ain't going to stop nothing
here. Him or Jabriel.
All right. It's okay. Uh, Lady Logic
knows it by heart, so she could come in.
Well, sweetheart, what was the
So, we have the hadith. This is actually
going to be the next hadith over 4987
and Saiukar. The first one we're talking
about is 4986. The next second one is
Saiukar 4987. Back to back to back. All
right. Usually that's how shakes talk.
Okay. So, with this being said, we have
another problem occurs. Okay. Abu Bakr
dies, Umar, he dies. And now Utman is
now the Caleb. He's the new ruler. And
so what happens is is that there's some
issues with reciting the Quran. And so
one of the people, I forget the guy's
name. See, if I had the hadith, you
know, Jel didn't delete it. Uh
>> thank you. Hifa Hudifa says, "Hey, chief
of the believers, listen. We got a
problem. We got these people that are
differing in their recitation of the
Quran.
Save us. before we defer about the book
like the Jews and Christians before us.
Now, let me get this straight. Muslims
would tell us that recitations are just
different modes, right? They just
different ways of saying the same thing,
right, Dr. Jay? If these were just
saying the same thing, but if I'm just
saying tomato versus tomato, then how
can this difference split us up like how
Jews and Christians were split? That
don't make sense to me. This must this
must mean that these differences were so
massive were so uh influential that they
can divide the religion doctrinal issues
rulings differences because of these
different verses but they're supposed to
be all reading the same Quran reciting
the same Quran. So what does he do? He
gets four people together. Zen thaw is
one of them. A guy named Asham is
another. There's two others that I don't
remember their names. But here's the
crazy thing about that. I'm going to
show you guys why this is later. Why
this is important later. There's a few
people that that Umma left out of this.
One of them was Iben Massud. You guys
heard of Iban Massud before?
>> Iban Massud is very very very important.
And we're going to get to this later,
but Udmat has his own little committee,
mostly family members of his, little
nephews and little, you know, little
homies. and uh people that listen to him
and look up to him who he could tell
what to do. And so Heath has them
bring they he asked for Hopsa's
manuscript.
Let us make a perfect copy of this. She
ends up sending the manuscript. Then
they rewrite it. The hadith says they
rewrote it in perfect copies. Now was
Muhammad there for that? No, he wasn't.
So hold on a second. Who gave the
authority, the divine prophetic
authority to rewrite the Quran?
But how don't they always say your Bible
has been rewritten many, many times?
>> Don't they say that?
>> It's in the hadith. It says that they
rewrote the Quran in perfect copies.
Now, here's the thing. Who's judging if
it's perfect or not? Usman. Imagine if
Paul did that, y'all. Imagine if Paul
said, "Hey, everybody, give me your m
give me your manuscript of Matthew. Give
me Luke. Give me give it all to me." And
Timothy, I'm going to need you. I'm
going to need Luke. Uh I'm going filon.
I'm going to need you guys. Go ahead and
write rewrite Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John in perfect copies. And then all the
copies that you guys have, burn them.
Get rid of them.
IMAGINE IF PAUL DID THAT, Y'ALL.
[laughter]
We wouldn't be able to defend that.
Yeah. Bible B they Bible they they might
have a point Bible might be corrupted
man
Bible might be corrupted but thankfully
we're Islamophobes and we don't have
that information in our history but they
do. [laughter]
So we're going to use it and we're going
to use the good ain't we? We're going to
use it good. out. So Abu Bakr has them
all burnt and he says whether
fragmentaryary copies or whole copies of
the Quran be burnt, toasted. Put in the
put it put in the fire. Okay. All gone.
So when I'm thinking of this, this is
supposed to solve the issue. This was
this was Uman's solution. Correct? This
is how we're going to save the nation
from deferring about the book like the
people from before. So when we look at
the hadith, we should see unity, right?
We should see we should see continuity.
Is that correct?
Inshallah, we'll see that.
Let's see what we find. Ah, now this is
a good one. This is a good one.
Now this guys
is a hadith
that I love to talk about. Why? You'll
see. Abu Har reported on the authority
of his father that Abu Musa, one of the
companions of Muhammad, Al Ashari sent
for the reciters of Basra. They came to
him and they were 300 in number. They
recited the Quran. Now just a little
point here. This is actually a little
bit before Uman's burning of the Quran
and all that. This is actually after Abu
Bakr. So right in the middle Umar was
was the leader at this time. Okay. And
so right when Umar is the leader, Abu
Bakr already made the manuscript. So we
should all be good. There shouldn't be
no different recitations. However, so
this is what happens. So the people of
Basra come and they recite the Quran to
Abu Musa. They were 300 in number. And
so this is what he said in response to
them reciting the Quran. He says, "You
are among," and this is how I imagine
him talking, "You are among the best
in the inhabitants of Basra, for you are
the reciters among them."
So continue to recite it. But bear in
mind, now he gives them a warning. What
is this warning? Watch this guys. that
your reciting for a long time may not
harden your hearts as were hardened the
hearts of those before you. Hold on a
second. Shouldn't reciting the Quran
keep you humble? Shouldn't reciting of
the Quran keep you confident? How can
reciting the Quran for a long time
harden your heart? Well, Abu Musa tells
us, he gives us an example. He says, "We
used to recite a surah which resembled
in length and severity to surah barat
which is another name for chapter 9."
Does anybody know how long chapter 9 is?
About 129 verses. So there used to be a
chapter of the Quran that used to be at
least
129 chap uh verses in this chapter. But
what happened to it? Let's see.
I have however forgotten it.
Look at all these Islamophobes laughing
at this. This is crazy. I have forgotten
it.
But he said, he continues, "With the
exception of this which I remember out
of it." So tell us what it is, Aba Mosa.
If there were two valleys full of riches
for the son of Adam, he would long for a
third and nothing would fill the stomach
of the son of Adam but dust. Okay, so
not all of it was lost. He still
remembers the verse.
This is what I want you guys to do for
me. Can any of you guys put this wording
in the internet and see if it pops up of
any of your Qurans?
It ain't there.
This is gone.
it does not exist.
So, we're seeing that within their
authentic hadith. This is Sahi Muslim,
by the way, y'all. Sahi Muslim
authentic. I know sahi ain't so sahi in
2026, but it's okay. Where's my folks?
We're still going to use sahi hadith.
According to Sahi Hadith,
you have entire chapters of the Quran
gone. And we're not just talking about
little verses here and there. about 129
verses are gone, ladies and gentlemen.
But they tell us that the Quran today is
the exact same way back to Muhammad's
time. According to who? Not Abu Musa.
Abu Musa literally told you, "Hey, I
forgot it."
Except for this. And what does he say
about this? He gives this as an example
of reciting the Quran FOR A LONG TIME.
RECITING the Quran for a long time
causes you to forget.
How, bro? [laughter]
I don't. Now, that I don't understand.
But mashallah,
I don't get that part. But he continues
cuz this ain't it. He says, "And we used
to recite a surah which resembled one of
the suras of Musabihhat." Now, Musabi
Hatsuras were a group of they they they
categorize these chapters in the Quran
that usually starts with glory to Allah
or something like that, right? So,
giving honor to Allah. So, these are a
category of chapters in the Quran. Okay?
So, we used to recite a surah which
resembled one of the suras of Musabi.
And I forgotten it. He did it again
y'all. He forgot it. But he remembers
this much out of it. Oh people who
believe, why do you say that which you
do not practice and that and he says and
that is recorded in your necks as a
witness against you and you would be
asked about it on the day of
resurrection. Y'all know where this is?
Nowhere.
Entire chapters of the Quran
forgotten,
gone poof.
My bad. Gone y'all.
So this narrative here like we can show
you different Qurans. We can show you
different Arabic Qurans. Huffs, wash,
colon, duri. We can show you all these.
We can hand you and show you the
differences in the existing Qurans
today. But another unique thing we can
do is go into the Islamic sources as
Islamophobes and show you that even the
companions, even your history says that
your Quran is not the same as theirs.
There is chapters that are gone, verses
that are missing. Poof. Now, here's a
good example of this, guys. Watch this.
Watch this.
narrated Ibrahim.
This is Sahib Bukari 4944.
The companions of Abdullahbin Masoud
came to Abu Dha before they arrived at
his home. Now remember Ib Massud,
remember this name, okay? I told y'all
he was important. Ib Massud.
So Abu Dar came to the companions of
Imasud, looked for them, he found them.
Then he asked them, "Who among you can
recite the Quran as Abdullah Ib Massud
recites it?" They replied, "All of us."
He asked, "Who among you knows it by
heart?"
They pointed at alchema.
So out of all the companions of of
Abdullah bin Massud who recites it the
way he does, only one of them could do
it by heart. There goes memorization
again. Was not that reliable. But let's
see how he goes, right? All right, let's
see what happens here. Then he asked
Alma, "How did you hear Abdullah bin
Massud reciting Sah Al the night?" This
is chapter 92:3 of the Quran, y'all.
Chapter 2, Chapter 92:3. How do you How
did you hear Ib Masud recite this? He
goes, "He recited it by the male and the
female."
Abu Dharma said, "I testified that I
heard the prophet reciting it likewise."
This is exactly how I heard Muhammad
recite it. But he says, "But these
people, these people," now if I was, I
would have been, "What do you mean you
these people?" You know, I would have
felt a little offended by that, but you
know, seventh century is a little
different, I guess. Um, he goes, "But
these people want me to recite it."
quote, "And by him who created male and
the female, BUT BY ALLAH SUBHANA wa
ta'ala,
I will not follow them." This is
interesting. This is very strong
language because he doesn't just say,
"Oh, okay. Yeah, you know, I like your
version better." He swears by Allah he
will not follow the way that these
people are reciting it because what
they're reciting is incorrect.
Now how does he know this? Because he
appealed to Ib Massud.
So he now let's just think about this.
Abu Darda he said I heard the prophet
reciting it that way too. So Abu Darda
was he learned from Muhammad himself.
But what he needed was a second opinion.
The opinion of
Ib Massud
who whom Muhammad says
Abdullah Ibin Abdullah bin Amar
mentioned
Abdullah Massud said I shall ever No,
this ain't it. Oh yeah, here it is. I
shall ever love that man for I heard the
prophet saying. They're talking about Ib
Massud. Why they love Ib Massud so much.
I shall ever love that man. For I heard
the prophet saying, "Take i.e. learn the
Quran from four." What's the first name
is up there?
Abdullah bin Masoud.
So, Muhammad says if you want to learn
the Quran,
first person he mentioned was taken from
Massud. Ib Masoud. He names others as
well which none of these four were in
Uman's little committee when he rewrote
the Quran. They were all left out. Think
about that. The people that the prophet
said take the Quran from were left out
of saving the people from differing
about the Quran.
Why?
Because of Paul. Exactly.
The Apostle Paul corrupted Usman. Don't
y'all see? You see
clear as day.
That's how important IBM Massud is. So
going back to this, we have
we have Abu Dar swearing by Allah that
he's not going to follow the people who
are disagreeing with Ib Massud's
rendition of the verse. Why? Because Ib
Massud is one of the ones that Muhammad
said, "Learn the Quran from these guys."
And so then what do we see now?
Let's look at the difference. How did I
mass recite it? He says by the male and
the female. The other people by him who
created the male and the female. Which
way you think is in the Quran today? Ib
Masud's way or the wrong people's way?
What do you think, Marshall?
Im mass. Good guess. You know what? If I
wasn't an Islamophobe, I would think
that I would think that you know what it
should be in in in Mass's version,
right? Because that's the correct way.
But
somebody look at this.
Somebody take a look at this. It says,
"And by him who hath created the male
and the female, BY ALLAH, I won't follow
this
by Allah."
which means that I have to reject the
Quran today because Ib Massud and his
companions rejected the Quran today.
Insane, isn't it? The person Muhammad
said to learn the Quran from disagrees
with the Quran today.
They swore by Allah they won't do it
this way, but somehow someway by Allah
it made it in the Quran.
Ain't that something? Corruption. I
think not.
I think this is perfectly preserved.
There's no no reason to think otherwise,
is it?
One more example.
But do you guys see how we can go inside
of the sources?
We can go inside of the Islamic sources
and we can demonstrate
that according to
according to
early Islam,
the Quran has been corrupted in their
early tradition. Let's see here. We got
to get the mother of believers here. I
Hey, I couldn't talk about this without
bringing up Aisha.
>> Hey, justice for Aisha, man. Just she
was such a scholar.
I'm telling you, if it wasn't for Aisha,
man, I probably wouldn't be an
Islamophobe,
but she gave us so much ammunition.
Yeah. God bless her. Um, all right. So,
Aisha Sah Muslim 1452.
This is a This is a good one. You guys
heard of this before. Aisha, Allah, be
pleased with See, I don't mind saying it
here. Allah, be pleased with her. Yes,
be pleased with Aisha. She's an MVP. She
reported that it had been revealed in
the Holy Quran. It was in the Quran. Is
that right? It says in the Quran, right?
Okay. In the Quran that 10 clear
sucklings make the marriage unlawful.
Now, because we have kids in here, I
will not go into detail on what that
means, but uh
yeah, beautiful Islam. Beautiful Islam.
Then it was abregated and substituted
by five clear succulents
and Allah's apostle died and it was
before that time found in the holy
Quran.
Now this is interesting.
Aisha says that it was in the Quran 10
clear sucklings that make a marriage
unlawful. Then it got changed to five.
So we see abrogation, right? We see the
substitution from 10 to five.
So, we should see this in the Quran,
right? Maybe not the 10. Let's say,
okay, you know what? 10 abregated,
deleted, substituted. Maybe they got rid
of that verse. No worries. I don't
expect to see the 10. Where's the five?
We should see the five clear sucklings
in the Quran. Marshall, you think it's
in the Quran? No, it's not. It don't
exist.
But they might say, "No, abrogation
though. It was abregated. They got Allah
substitute Allah didn't mean for that to
be preserved. Unfortunately, Aisha says
that Allah's apostle died and it was
before that time before he died it was
in the Quran. Which means guess what?
Abregation can't happen without the
prophet unless one of these guys is a
new prophet.
Unless you want to say that. I'm cool
with that. Let's go with that. Let's
have fun there. But without the prophet,
abrogation can't happen because
abrogation is a divine revelation. This
is Allah communicating that a verse is
no longer applicable or a verse should
not be in the Quran anymore or yada yada
yada. That's divine revelation straight
from Allah. So a mere man who's not a
prophet cannot abregate anything in the
Quran. They cannot delete the verses of
Allah.
So with Muhammad dead, abrogation don't
work. Matter of fact, this is what their
scholars say. Their scholars say that
without the prophet, abrogation cannot
be. It has if there's going to be
abrogation, it has to be before he dies.
Aayisha says these verses were there
when he died. They were still in the
Quran and they were still being recited
by the Muslims.
So where are they?
Where are these verses? They are
probably in the middle pages, second
paragraph of the Injil.
Probably somewhere around there. Who
knows? I don't know. I'm just guessing.
Just throwing that out there. So, what
does this tell us, guys? Missing verses,
missing chapters,
abrogation can't save you. Remember the
chapters that Abu Musa forgot? That's
after Muhammad's death. Those verses are
gone. This is after Muhammad.
So there's no excuse. The Quran has not
been perfectly preserved letter for
letter, word by word, even according to
the earliest tradition of Islam.
All right, I'm done, y'all. Cool. We
done. That's it.
Any questions?
[snorts]
All right, we got a few. We're going to
wait. We're gonna wait till for the
brother to pass the mic around.
>> So the Muslims say that um uh regarding
uh what do you call that Abu Bakr's
Quran, right?
They uh I I mentioned this when I was a
speaker's corner. They say that um the
question is how do you explain that? Why
did Utman had to redo the compilation
when Obaker has done that? Um what would
you like? Would you want to comment more
on that because that's something that's
very important?
>> Yeah. What what uh you're saying that
they they raise an objection or a
reason?
>> Well, I mean they they can't really say
much to that because why why would it be
necessary to for Ruthman to even
recompile it?
>> Exactly. So here's that's a good point.
So his point is is that why in the world
would he have to recompile the Quran if
it was already compiled by Abu Bakr,
right? Why would he have to take it and
rewrite it? Yeah, you're absolutely
right. If if if they already compiled
the Quran, which Abu Bakr did, they
said, "Why you going to ask me to do
something this this difficult?" They
already compiled the Quran before Uman
was leader.
So they didn't need to recompile it. All
they had to do is just send out those
copies, I guess. So then why rewrite in
perfect copies and then have everything
else burned and say, "Yeah, follow this
now." It's a good question. These are
holes in the narrative. Yeah.
>> Hello every Thank you very much for the
presentation. Praise God. Of course. Um
so about nine years ago, Vog Malone uh
did a debate with Shadid Lewis titled,
"Is the Quran trustworthy?" And
admittedly, it's quite hazy in my mind.
It's like I watched it about like two
years ago, but I remember Shadid
basically Vocap he kept maybe if Vocab
is here maybe he can comment more about
but
>> basically from what Yeah. So from what I
recall basically Verv keep you know he
was bringing up most if not the exact
same hadiths that you were bringing up
obviously you know sound argumentation
and you know shided he was kind of
beating around the bush but eventually
he just said oh you know my view on
these hadiths is that they've been
abregated and stuff and he said you know
he seemed to imply that quite a few
other Muslim leaders whoever they are um
seem to agree with that view. Um, if
you've heard that, I don't know if
that's actually like a mainstream
response that the Muslims give to these
hadiths and stuff cuz I'm sure like they
do like have some kind of mainstream
responses to the Christians who bring up
these hadiths. Yeah. Is abrogation one
of them? If if you know,
>> yeah, abrogation is the is the response
they give. Remember I told you they say
words, right? The only word they say is
abrogation. Abrogation. Abrogation. The
problem is is that contextually
abrogation cannot be without Muhammad.
So if they're going to say these verses
were abregated, meaning they were
intentionally substituted by Allah, they
would have to show where Muhammad did
this. Where does Muhammad say that this
was abregated? Where does Muhammad where
is Muhammad around to delete or get rid
of or nullify these verses? They have to
show that they have to demonstrate that.
We have examples where Muhammad
[clears throat] like for there's a there
were two people who memorized a verse
and they uh this narration says that
they woke they woke up the next morning
and they couldn't remember it. So they
went to Muhammad about this issue and so
Muhammad said, "Oh yeah, don't worry
about it. It's just been abregated."
Right? So it's it's funny but there's
there's two things about this one. Look
at the copout. Muhammad had no answers.
abrogation was the best thing ever. Hey
man, yeah, Allah just made you forget.
That's all good. Allah made you forget,
right? But Muhammad had to be the one to
tell them that. They can't just assume,
oh, Allah made me forget. So, this verse
is gone now because that verse can very
well still be uh ve, you know, uh legal
or whatever. It can still be true um
even though they somebody forgot it. So,
forgetting something does not
automatically mean abrogation. It has to
be through Muhammad. That's number one.
Number two is I forgot the second point
I was gonna make. So thank you for your
question.
dialect.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> With the dialect.
>> Absolutely. Thank you, Dr. J. So, yes.
So, another objection that would bring
up is well, dialects, just different
dialects. It's a dialect issue, right?
They're they're saying the same thing,
but in just a different way of saying
the word. That's all. Here's the
problem. So, there's a hadith where
Hasham and Umar were arguing over their
Quran. Umar heard Hisham reciting the
Quran and he was about to beat him up.
But he said, "You know what? Let me let
him finish. Let me maybe he'll get it
together. But when he finished, he
grabbed him by the collar and drugg him
to Muhammad." Here's the thing. Um and
Hasham both spoke the same dialect.
They were both from the same tribe of
Curesh.
So they can't say that dialect was the
issue. that made Umar just see red and
attack Hasham because he heard
difference in the Quran. It wasn't
dialect. That was a real issue. They
spoke the same dialect. That's number
one. Number two, we see uh with Uman's
compilation, right? The differences in
recitations were so bad that they can
split the religion like the Jews and
Christians were split about their book.
So this can't be a dialect issue. This
is doctrinal. this is ruling issues
within their Qurans, right? And here's
another thing. Uh uh you know, Uman
said, "If you guys disagree with the
Quran, then just write it in the dialect
of Curesh because that's the dialect
that it was revealed." But I thought it
was revealed in multiple dialects.
Interesting.
>> In order to have dialectical differences
in a written text, you need
vowelizations. There were no vowels in
the seventh century. So these could only
have happened in the 8th and 9th century
when Al Buhari was writing this down. It
was a problem for him in the 9th century
redacted back to the seventh century
which makes no sense.
>> Yes [laughter] sir.
Dr. J.
[laughter]
>> Yes sir. All right.
>> Uh have you come across Muslims who
believe that all the hadiths are false
and just the Quran is true? Quran only.
>> How how do you get around that?
>> Yeah sure. So, what you want to do with
a Quran only Muslim is you present them
two Qurans and ask them which one.
Which one? Cuz I'm Quran only. Matter of
fact, I'm pretty sure a bunch of this
congregation are original Quran only
Christians, right? Is that right? That's
right. Yeah. Let me hear y'all. For
those of y'all who don't know what that
is, these are Christians who believe in
the original Quran before it got
corrupted.
Before it got corrupted. You know, the
original Quran used to affirm the
gospel. It used to affirm the
crucifixion. It affirmed the trinity. It
literally said, it literally said Jesus
said, "I am God. Worship me."
But it got corrupted by Usman. And so,
unfortunately, it's lost. We can see a
little bit of the truth in the Qurans
today, like where it says uh that the
Quran came confirming the Torah and
Gospel. Stand on the Torah and Gospel.
Jesus, the word of Allah, you know, but
when it says don't say three, that
part's a corruption.
Um, but yeah, that's what you do with a
Quran only. Give them multiple Qurans
and ask them which one because I want to
be Quran only too. So, which Quran only
should I follow? That'll be fun. Yes,
sir. Father Mike or actually he has the
mic. Sorry.
>> Thank you.
>> Yes. Thanks.
>> What up, Kingston?
>> Yeah, man. Um, brilliant speech. Thank
you very much. Um I just wanted to
explore your thoughts on as you can
imagine most um you know Muslims are
conceding um they saying it's like it's
now [clears throat] 97%
>> textually like preserved right
>> so I just wanted to um explore your
thoughts when a a Muslim says actually
you're right it's only 97% um preserved
texturally
>> um so um your book is not corrupted our
books is, you know, is what we have. So,
let's compete in good deeds, right? To
each prescribed a new law, right?
>> You know, to the Jews, the Torah, to the
Christians, the
>> in jail, and to us, the Quran, wherever
we've got. So, on the day of
resurrection, we'll know where we used
to differ. So, how would you respond to
when that is the the end, the stalemate?
>> Sure. So if a Muslim concedes and says,
"Yeah, okay, but let's just each follow
our own books." Um, then I you can go in
different areas with that particular
Muslim. Now, you might ask that Muslim,
okay, then so since you see that there's
actually corruption in your Quran, why
do you believe Islam is true? What makes
you trust Islam? Why do you trust this
religion? Why do you trust Muhammad as a
prophet? And then go take carry on the
conversation that way. you know, um, you
could take it in a way that, okay, let's
say we do do that. Let's say we I I
adhere to my book, you adhere to yours,
the Jews adhere to adhere to theirs. If
I were to adhere to my book, then I have
to judge your book as false. So, how do
I get around that? How do we reconcile
that? Because it doesn't seem possible
and take that conversation that way
because then you're breaking down Islam.
I mean, you got that first barrier down
of preservation. Now you're going to
break down the theological consistencies
within the Quran itself and Islamic
theology and uh that's a good that's a
good place to with that person they on
their way to Christ you know. So
>> hi. Um the other thing to bear in mind
is that there are narrations where Oman
is uh quoted as saying that even after
he saw the compilation there were still
mistakes in the text and he basically
said um leave them in there because they
don't make what is haram halal and what
is halal haram afterwards. So even after
he compiled the text, he looks at the
text and he's saying there's still
mistakes in this thing. So it whatever
he did didn't resolve all of the issues.
>> Clearly
clearly didn't resolve all of the
issues. I mean, look guys, there there's
a narration where Ib Massud says, "Hide
your Qurans,
hide your husbands, hide your wives,
hide your kids, and hide your Qurans."
He says, "Conceal them and keep them and
take them to paradise with you on the
day of resurrection." That's what he
says. He says Zade bin Tabet, the one
who was used by Usman to, you know,
collect the Quran and write it and
scribe and all that kind of stuff. He
says he was in his uh let me use
appropriate language. He was in his
father's loings. He was just a thought.
Um while uh while while he Ibas was
reciting the Quran and came to Islam, he
was he was he wasn't even born yet. So
how can you take him over me? I Mass did
not agree with this idea. He had a huge
problem with this. A lot of conflict.
>> One more quick thing also. Is is it my
imagination or after theic recession
when they burnt all the other
manuscripts in theory that should have
destroyed at least six of the seven Aar.
>> Yeah. Here's the interesting thing. Like
there's confusion about because they
don't know what the AUF are. And there
are actually some that believe that yes,
some did get uh burned during the um
manic um what do you call that?
>> Rescension. Yes, I like to call it
campfire. So during during the Osmanic
campfire, there's there are some
scholars that say that this the six a
roof were dealt burned away.
>> They don't know what those are.
which means somewhere else.
>> It came from somewhere else, man. Came
from Paul, dude.
>> Yeah, you guys don't get it.
>> What's up, Tiger?
>> Yeah. Um, I wanted to know whether this
is authentic. Um, on the narrative of
burning and Hapsa getting her copy back,
isn't it said that Hapsa's copy was then
taken by Oman's cousin and then burned
after she died because of the
differences between hers and Oman's?
>> I don't know. I never heard that before.
Dr. Jay, have you heard that before?
It's It's Daif.
>> It's Da.
>> I was wondering if you could um just
flip through the sides again for a
couple of seconds just so I could take
pictures.
>> Sure.
>> If that's all right.
>> Yeah. Okay. You want me just You want me
to just go through them c gradually?
>> Okay.
Um,
>> question.
>> Well, actually that's the same one.
Sorry.
>> Oh,
>> yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you. So, guy, yeah, all of this is
going to be on the website on Fander
>> Fanderenter.org.
So, you guys can get the slides, the
notes there. That's good stuff.
>> Here's another question. Hi
[clears throat] Avery, thank you very
much for the talk. Um, of course,
>> how do you respond to people who claim
that the Abiima Alinsari who had the
last verse of Surah Toba had a witness
equal to two?
>> Sorry. So, how do I respond?
>> Yeah. So, you mentioned that the last
verse of Surah Toba was found with Oh,
>> Abi Kuza Alinsari.
>> Yeah.
>> Muslims claim um which I disagree with
by the way, but Muslims claim that this
Kuza had the witness of two.
>> Is that the witness of two?
>> Yeah. The witness of two. So a witness
equal to two people because they tried
to claim that
>> like cuz remember before you were saying
that they found one verse with one
person.
>> Yeah.
>> But they claimed that this person had a
witness equal to two because in Uman's
uh reension the last or a missing verse
of Sorah Alazab was found with Kuzbin
Tab alsari who had a witness of two. So
they claim that they're the same person
which I disagree with. But my my my what
I've seen when I'm debating with Muslims
is what they'll bring up this point and
say that this kai this kusima had a
witness of too to try to counteract that
it was just one person basically who had
uh this missing verse.
>> What what would be their evidence for
that? Um there is there is an evidence
there is although I I'd refute it the
evidence would be based on 4987
and um the story of the bedin where
Muhammad had a horse that he allegedly s
bought from a bedin and this kuza
um uh was actually a false witness cuz
he claimed that um Muhammad did buy the
horse when he wasn't actually with him
and testified that he testified on his
favor because he believes that he's a
trustworthy person not because he was
actually there and he witnessed
But essentially what I'm saying is that
in 4987 when you see the standardization
you find that there was a Kuza who had a
missing verse when they were
transcribing the Quran
>> and um and he had a witness equal to two
and they try to say that that's the same
Kuza who was a part of the the
compilation 20 years before to try and
get away from the uh the claims that we
make that there was not two witnesses
when Z collected the Quran. So, so if
I'm understanding this correctly, their
argument is that Aul Lima was so
trustworthy that his witness equaled two
witnesses.
>> That's correct. Yeah. Based on a hadith
that um
>> because he was trustworthy before.
>> Yes.
>> Although I would argue, Avery, it's
because he's a Sahaba. That's why. And
the Sahabas have double of anybody
else's witness. So they go back to the
Sahaba or the Tabune. Either the Sahaba
or the Tabune have doubled the witness
of anybody else because of the fact that
he was a Sahaba. He was an eyewitness.
It doubles his his testimony.
>> Okay.
So, so, so interesting. So, he he's
doubly trustworthy because he's a
Sahaba.
Um,
>> and we're supposed to go, okay, yeah,
that sounds good.
>> That's that's how we're supposed to take
it.
Okay.
>> Yeah, this is interesting. I mean, e
even if he even if he was like
trustworthy to them, like he has the
witness of two, that's still this this
is my problem.
I can't I can't just take that off of
face value off of uh oh he was
trustworthy before or he's a Sahaba so
therefore he's doubly trustworthy so
whatever he says about the Quran verse
we can just take it because if that was
the case then would you do the same
thing for us with Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John? Would you do the same thing
with Paul? No. Oh, they have to meet
them. They have to do you know they they
they're they're hyper skeptical about
these things. So what I would hold the
Muslim to is because if they brought
that up to me, I would have a fun time
with that and be like, "Oh, okay. So you
you trust the disciples then too, you
know, and show that same methodology,
see if they're consistent." If they're
not consistent, then that shows that
that methodology doesn't work. They're
just saying that just to say words here
to fill up whatever hole this is right
here. That just it doesn't work. This is
one guy. You say he's trustworthy. You
say Muhammad trusted him before. That's
fine. Muhammad ain't here to trust him
this time.
You know that's interesting.
>> I is always
>> it's always good to hear from you. Um
4987
from Bkari 4987 that wasn't here
unfortunately.
>> Um it says that Osman said to three Quri
men in case you disagree with Z bin Sab
and on any point in the Quran then write
it in the dialect of Quraysh.
>> The Quran was revealed to their tongue.
Yeah.
>> And looking to Z um bin, he is from the
um tribe.
>> Oh, he's not from Kuresh.
>> It's not from Kuresh.
>> So is that is that we could we we are
actually the convolation of the Quran.
Is it kind of a discrimination against
all the Arab or is is is actually on a
tribal selection or is it actually
according to God?
>> Yeah, that's a good question. Father
Michael over here cooking. So, so Z
Benav was from a different tribe with a
different dialect and it looks like they
prioritized the Cureshi dialect. And so
is this is this, you know, revelation or
compilation of the Quran is it of divine
origin or is it tribal superiority? That
is a good question. I might ask that on
my next live stream, man. That's good.
>> Hey.
>> Hi. By the way, I uh I often refer to uh
Uman's campaign as a campaign of
suppression.
>> Yeah. Nice.
>> Um so you've done a a very nice job, I
think, of kind of demonstrating that
there are things that were in the
original Quran that are not present in
the Quran that we have today. That there
are things that are possibly different
from what was for example given to Mass
Masud and so forth. So I guess my
question is on a completely unrelated
note of course um if I were to give you
a glass of water uh and I told you that
this water is completely pure except
that there is one drop of urine in it.
Would you drink that water?
>> I wouldn't.
>> Yeah.
>> Some of the Muslim probably be a good
choice
>> if it's camel.
>> You get the reference. [laughter]
>> Okay. Guys, can we give a massive warm
applause
for Avery Gio?
Thank you, Alistister.