It is always good to be back. I hope you
realize how rare it is. I mean, Kyle is
so generous to allow me to come back and
and to preach. And I don't ever want to
take that for granted. I feel so
incredibly blessed to have Kyle as a
friend, but more so to have him as my
pastor. And uh this is a incredible
church that has blessed so many
different people. And it's been a huge
blessing to to me and to my family. And
I want you to know that. Uh, get your
Bibles out if you would. Get your
handydandy Colossians notetaker out.
This has caused Kyle a lot of
consternation, hasn't it? I mean, the
dude is relatively unflapable, but I
think that this thing has really, really
grabbed him and the fill in the blanks
has really messed with his mind. And I
understand because uh back about 20
years ago, we used to have a Wednesday
night service and we had fill in the
blanks every Wednesday night. And so
when you preached on a Wednesday night
at 10:00 on Wednesday morning, you had
to have your outline turned in. And then
you had to that night make certain that
you actually filled in every blank as
you preached. And it was a awesome
responsibility and a little bit
intimidating. I remember one Wednesday
night after I preached the service
ended. I said, "Amen." Immediately 15
people in line. I thought, "Wow, I must
have really said something that sparked
some interest."
First guy shook my hand. He said,
"Dave," he said, "you forgot to tell us
what the fourth point was." He said, "We
all know it started with an R."
But he said, "What was it?" I said,
"Well," I said, "I I probably said it,
but I said, uh, you may have missed it,
but the word was responsibility."
He wrote down responsibility. He turned
around to all 15 people. He said,
"Responsibility." They all wrote it
down. Boom. They were gone,
like cockroaches with a flood light on
them, you know? So, I know you love your
fill in the blanks. All right? But
rather than have uh 30 fill in the
blanks and only getting 27 of them, uh
if you turn to week three, you'll see
what they did for me. For my week, they
did no fill in the blanks. Okay? It's
just one big blank page which basically
says, "Lower your expectations.
The old man is back." All right.
Speaking of which, I guess it was about
10 years ago while I was still serving
as as the lead pastor here, Kyle and I
did all of the preaching. And one time
during that stretch, uh, I ran into a
lady during the week. She was very
excited to run into me, and she said,
"Oh, I've been trying to get my coworker
to come to Southeast, and she never has
come. But when I saw her a few weeks ago
on Monday at her cubicle, she announced,
"I went to Southeast yesterday." And I
said to her, "Oh, that's great. I was
out of town. Who was preaching?" And my
coworker said, "I don't know. I I I
don't know anybody's names." And the gal
says to me, so I said to her, "Was it
the good-looking guy or was it the older
man?
And it was a bit confusing to me because
I don't I don't think of Kyle as being
older.
And so I was kind of baffled.
No, actually I wanted to say to her, you
you do know that I can hear what you're
saying, right? I'm I'm wearing my
hearing aids today. Uh most unsettling
was the fact that this church member,
this woman who told me the story, didn't
even adjust her story or soften it in
any way to make it less painful for me.
She just candidly shared it. It at least
I don't think she softened it. Um if she
did soften it, I'm going to need some
therapy. All right.
Well, we're all reminded that sometimes
that we're not all we think we are and
we don't control as much as we'd like
to. And one of the reasons the Christian
faith is so compelling is that it
reminds us that there is one who is in
charge and his name is Jesus. It's it's
not us. And today in our study of the
book of Colossians, the New Testament
book, we're going to see that that Jesus
Jesus is to be the priority of our
lives. If you have your Bible, turn to
Colossians chapter 3. Or you can just
follow along with us on the screens. But
Colossians chapter 3 begins with with
these two verses. Since then you have
been raised with Christ. Set your hearts
on things above where Christ is seated
at the right hand of God. Set your minds
on things above, not on earthly things.
So Colossians 3 begins with this since
then or therefore. In other words, it
calls us back to the things that we've
learned in Colossians 1 and 2.
Therefore, since Christ is the
resurrected Lord, because of what he
offers, because of who he is, because of
where he now lives, because of how he
rules, since he deserves your complete
allegiance, how then should we live? And
this is this uh transitional point in
the book of Colossians where it moves
from being a doctrinal study to a
demonstration. How are we going to live
this out? What's the practical
application of this? So, in other words,
in light of Colossians 1 and 2, he says,
"Set your hearts on things above." Your
heart is your core of your being. It's
the center.
So, it is your priority.
Let's divide this this chapter into four
different segments. The first segment,
your priorities.
Paul then says after he says, "Set your
hearts on things above." Now he says,
"Set your minds on things above." Why?
Because thoughts are actions in
rehearsal.
Your thoughts are just the words that
you haven't chosen to say out loud yet.
Your heart, your thoughts, look at verse
three. For you died and your life is now
hidden with Christ in God. He's saying
you, you belong to him. He is your safe
place. He is your refuge. His spirit is
in you. You are to be different and
distinctive. You have different
priorities than this culture. You have a
heavenly purpose. Paul says, "For you
died." Remember back in Galatians
chapter 2 20 says, "I have been
crucified with Christ and I no longer
live but Christ lives in me." Yeah.
>> Did you mean it when you became a
Christian?
Or did you misunderstand and want him as
your savior but not as your Lord and
Master?
What's the purpose of the church if we
act like the rest of the world? In
Romans chapter 6, Paul says, "You died
to sin. How can you live in it any
longer?" And here in Colossians 3,
Paul's reminding us with his wording of
our heavenly home, of where Christ is
seated at the right hand of God. We live
here, but I'm living this life with the
next life in mind. I I love something I
heard Kyle say one time. He said, "This
world is not our home, but it is our
assignment."
And I need to be reminded of that. Last
weekend, I I spoke all weekend at a
program in Scottdale, Arizona. And one
of the other speakers that I got to hear
was a woman by the name of Tammy Joe
Schultz.
She was one of the first female fighter
pilots to serve in the US Navy. She
later became a Southwest Airlines pilot
and she made headlines back in 2018 when
she safely landed a Boeing 737
after the engine exploded.
It was heading from Laguardia
to Dallas Love Field. And she told the
gripping story of the chaotic event and
the instant when that engine exploded,
there was debris that flew from that
area from the engine. It came flying
through a window, killing a passenger
and leaving a hole in the side of the
airplane in row 14.
You can imagine
the cavalcade of things that happened
with the loss of cabin pressure. The
plane went into a nose dive.
She finally got it to the point where it
was somehow limping its way sideways
through the air. And then in the midst
of the crisis, she got on the intercom
and she said, "This is your captain
speaking.
We're going to go to Philly. We will
land there safely.
It's quite a story.
The landing itself was miraculous.
But she said, "I later learned from the
passengers that hearing that
announcement that they were going to go
to the airport in Philly changed things
for all of them." She said, "Having a
destination
gave them hope."
And the same is true for the Christian.
And Paul is saying, while you are living
out this life on earth, have some
confidence. This world is not your home.
Your eternal zip code is not in
Louisville or Etown or southern Indiana
or Franklin, Tennessee. Your home is in
heaven, and that should give you hope.
You live on earth, but you are heading
to a heavenly destination. So, your life
should reflect that. Your beliefs should
alter your behavior.
Let's look at another section here in
Colossians chapter 3. We'll look at
verses 5 and six. Put to death therefore
whatever belongs to your earthly nature,
sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil
desires, and greed, which is idolatry.
Because of these, the wrath of God is
coming.
There's your priorities,
and there's also your pursuits.
And something should be different.
There's something that needs to change
in our lives. This book, the Bible, was
given to be more than pages of
information and inspiration. It was put
out to us as a love letter. It's for our
transformation. And so Paul is going to
say that in order to pursue the right
things, you will have to get serious and
eliminate some other things. And the
word for sexual immorality that is used
here is the word porno, where we get the
word pornography.
and immorality can become a consuming
and a driving force. So Paul warns us to
move toward purity. He mentions sexual
sin. And then he moves on to caution us
about greed and how serious that is.
Greed can consume people. The word used
here means to have an insatiable desire
for more. Just just a little bit more.
That's that's what I need. My grandson
Roads turns five next month.
To say that he is very excited about
this would be an understatement. He
reminds us every day. The other day he
was over at our house. He was looking at
a magazine filled with a variety of kids
toys and Spider-Man products. And he got
out his rounded scissors and he just
started cutting out his top choices of
gifts. and he kept cutting out all of
these things that he liked and that he
wanted. And Beth was explaining, "Hey,
you you realize you you can't get all of
these different things that you've cut
out. All right? You you get one gift for
for your birthday." Well, he kind of
kept cutting things out and then he
taped all of them onto this piece of
paper.
And he said to Beth, he said, "Nana." He
said, "What comes after five?" And she
said, "Six." He said, 'Okay, I want this
for my fifth. I want this for my sixth
birthday. I want this for my seventh.
He's got 12 things. He's got it all laid
out till he's 17. All right.
We laugh when it's a fouryear-old.
We cringe when it's a 40year-old.
And they are consumed with what's the
next shiny item that will make them
happy. and the greed begins to take up
residency in their heart.
After this list of sinful things that
pull us away from Christ, Paul reminds
the church of this truth. I love this
verse. Verse seven, you used to walk in
these ways and the life you once lived.
Past tense.
That's in your past. That's who you
were. You say that Christ rules your
life. Prove it by putting these things
to death. But he doesn't stop with the
sins that he has already enumerated in
that first list. If the first list
didn't get you, hold on, he's got
another list coming. Verses 8 and N. But
now you must also rid yourselves of all
such things as these anger, rage,
malice, slander, and filthy language
from your lips. Do not lie to each
other.
the word for for anger there, it's like
a smoldering fire. The the word where it
talks about wrath, that is the leaping
over of flames. It's a whole another
level of anger. Paul gives this laundry
list of ungodly behavior and he says,
"Put to death these things." So, let me
ask you something. How do you kill
something? How do you kill it? How do we
put to death? How do we get rid of these
things? Well, one way you can starve it,
right?
Second way, you can bring it out in the
open and you can expose it. I mean,
you're only as sick as your secrets,
right?
A third way is that you can ask for help
from something that is more powerful.
May I remind you, the Christian
has the Holy Spirit living inside of
them. Do you believe that? And that's
what I'm inviting you to do today with
the help of the Holy Spirit to change
the path to alter the pattern to divert
that plane to another place to remember
your heavenly destination your calling
your commitment to Christ.
Verse nine. Do not lie to each other
since you have taken off your old self
with its practices and have put on the
new self which is being renewed in
knowledge in the image of its creator.
He says, "Take off and put on." He's
reminding them of their new identity in
Christ. Satan is the father of lies. He
says, "Let me remind you that's not who
you are anymore." Yeah.
>> And throughout the Bible, God expresses
extreme hatred for the sin of lying.
In James chapter 5, he says, "Don't
swear." Don't say, "Well, I swear it. I
swear it." Don't. You don't need to do
that. Verse 12 simply says this, "Let
your yes be yes and let your no be no."
What James is saying is when the
Christian opens their mouth, the only
thing that comes out is truth. That's
it.
And in this passage, Paul starts with
taking some bad habits off and getting
cleaned up. But to truly surrender your
life involves putting on some new
clothing. You'll recall that back in
Matthew 12 verse 45, Jesus told the
story about a man who was possessed by a
demon and it departed from the man, but
he he left his life empty. And so the
demon returned with seven evil spirits
that were worse than the first.
That's why it's not enough to remove
negative things from your life without
replacing them with the positive. So
that leads us to the third section.
There has to be a change of clothes. And
we'll call this section your wardrobe.
God looks in your closet and he's listed
the old things that have to go. He looks
at the junk in our lives. You say,
"Well, that's got to go. I got to get
rid of that sexual immorality." Well,
you got to you got to do something about
the lying. Hey, your anger, let's get
rid of that. Throw that out. Put that in
the trash. But God knows you so well.
Like a person who knows your colors and
your style, knows what you look good in
and what clothes you need to avoid. He's
got some suggestions for what you need
to wear. Here's his list. And he knows
it looks good on everyone.
Verse 12. Therefore, as God's chosen
people, holy and dearly loved, clothe
yourselves with compassion, kindness,
humility. Oh man, you look great in
that. Gentleness, patience. Bear with
each other and forgive one another. If
any of you has a grievance against
someone, forgive as the Lord forgave
you.
You know, when someone joins the
military, what do they do? They take off
civilian clothes and they put on the
uniform. Why? Because it shows identity
and purpose.
And as believers, we put on compassion,
humility, and patience. He's going to go
on in the next verse. He's going to say,
"And above all, love." The uniform of
the Christian is love. When people see
it, they know who we belong to.
Hey, I don't I don't want to make this
sound easy,
you know, take off, put on, piece of
cake. It's like trying on clothes at the
store. No, it's not.
No, it's not.
The truth is it is difficult
to exchange anger for forgiveness,
to exchange immorality for purity
and apathy for love. Dwight Moody said,
"When I was converted, I made this
mistake. I thought the old things had
passed away, that all things had become
new, and that the old corrupt nature,
the old life was gone. But I found out
after serving Christ for a few months
that there was a battle at hand.
>> And there is.
>> I want you to imagine, go back in time
to a week this summer. You remember that
stretch where in our region we had like
five or six days of 100 degree was the
high temperature. I want you to imagine
I'm working outside maybe uh I'm cut
some limbs down and I'm I'm sweaty. I've
been mowing all day. I've got dirty,
nasty, sweaty clothes on. I I come
walking in the house. I'm I'm drenched.
I'm walking like a bow-legged cowboy.
And I come in, but it's date night with
Beth. And so I have to take off all
those filthy, sticky layers. And I hop
in the shower. I shampoo my hair, which
doesn't take very long these days. I
lather up with soap and body wash. In a
matter of minutes, I mean, I feel like
I'm a totally different person. I dry
off. I I smell good. Every inch of me is
clean. And then I get out of the shower
and I reach down to that pile of filthy
clothes. And I grab those dirty, wet,
sweaty clothes and I I put them on
the shirt that's so stained, my my
shorts, my muddy shoes. And then in a
romantic sultry voice, I say to Beth,
"Where would you like to go tonight?"
And she looks at me and says, "I'm not
going anywhere with you. Have you lost
your mind, you goofball?
You just got all cleaned up. You took a
shower. You have a closet with nice
clothes. And you revert back to those
dirty, smelly rags."
And that is precisely
what Paul is saying in Colossians
chapter 3 to the church at Colasse.
He says, "Church,
that's those are the things that you
used to wear. Don't go back to that.
God's cleaned you up. You chose Jesus.
You changed. You put on a new uniform.
Your identity is in him." When you wave
the white flag of surrender, as 4,184
of you have done this year in
baptistries at every one of our
campuses, you are yielding and
surrendering to his lordship. And that
is to be accompanied with a change in
wardrobe.
And Paul chose this order because the
beliefs must be the foundation.
You start with the beliefs and then the
behavior becomes an outgrowth of your
beliefs and your value system. So let me
ask you,
do you believe that Jesus is the son of
God?
That he is all powerful and that he died
to become a perfect sacrifice to pay for
your sins and my sins, that he arose
from the grave, that he now sits at the
right hand of God. Do you believe
enough that you will make him the
priority of your life? that heaven will
be your destination. Have you accepted
the forgiveness that he offers? If so,
maybe it's time for a wardrobe change.
And this is usually the point
where Satan whispers in our ears and we
come up with all sorts of excuses.
You pick out your excuse, whatever works
for you. Well, you know, Dave, I mean,
yeah, I I get what you're saying, but
you know, the diagnosis is just too
serious. I mean, the divorce is
inevitable. Uh the the the depression is
too overwhelming. The dysfunction in our
family is too profound.
The desperation is real. I mean, it's
it's impossible.
And while you might say out of
frustration that is impossible, please
don't mean that.
I believe in a God that can do anything.
>> Hallelujah.
>> Who specializes in doing what is
impossible.
Let me tell you about a friend our
family made several years ago. Her name
is Lolli, as in lollipop.
It's not her given name, but it's a name
that she chose when she became an exotic
dancer.
And Beth and I had met Lai at a Bible
study that I'd spoken for. There's a
ministry in the Louisville area called
Scarlet Hope. And uh I'd spoken for
different events that they would have to
try to help these girls leave the adult
entertainment industry. And Beth and I
would go and and uh
something happens every Thursday in
Louisville. There's a group of Christian
ladies. They they make home-cooked meals
and they take them to 23 different clubs
in the Louisville area.
And these ladies, they just go in and
they come in a back door and they feed
them a home-cooked meal to all the
employees and all the dancers and they
talk with them and they listen to them
and they pray with these ladies. And as
strange as it sounds, girls are finding
Christ and they're they're leaving the
adult entertainment industry.
And so we had been praying for Lai for a
number of months, but then we heard that
she had had this major spiritual
breakthrough.
So Beth and I
picked her up from a daycare where she
was working and we took her to dinner
and we said, "Hey, we just want to all
we want to do is just hear your story.
We just want to hear your story."
Lai dropped out of high school when her
sophomore year. She was kicked out of
her home at the age of 18. In order to
pay for a motel, she stumbled onto
dancing in strip clubs. And she did that
for five years.
Then she had this change because of uh
the Scarlet Hope ministry introducing
her to Christ.
And through the course of the meal, we
discovered that her given name was
Lauren and her stage name was Lai.
So I said at the end of the meal, I
said, 'Hey, I said, 'You know, I know
God knows who you are, but we've been
praying for you as Lai for a number of
months. Do you prefer that we call you
Lauren or that we call you Lai?
And she quickly replied and she said,
"Oh." She said, "Please call me Lauren."
She said, "I buried Lai over a month
ago."
>> Amen.
I said, "So, uh, so Lauren it is." It's
been Lauren ever since.
Satan
knows you by your name, but he calls you
by your sin.
>> But Jesus knows you by your sin, but he
calls you by your name.
>> There's a big difference.
I had the privilege of of baptizing
Lauren the next month and praise the
Lord, Lauren's still wearing those new
clothes.
You do know that God specializes in
giving new identities.
Is there anything that you need to bury
and leave here?
Changing clothes is tougher than it
sounds. That's why we can't do it in the
flesh. We need the Holy Spirit to do his
work. It involved a wardrobe change for
Lauren. It will involve a wardrobe
change for you, too. But you can't do it
on your own. You can't just will that
I'm going to change. I found that when I
tried to do that in the flesh that my
experience is that those are short-lived
victories, but instead to say, "Okay,
Holy Spirit, you're going to have to do
some work. You're going to change me
from the inside out." So, I don't put
those old clothes on. God is not focused
on your past. He is fixated on your
future. His name is not I was. His name
is I am. Never allow someone's history
to determine their destiny. And Paul is
going to talk about honoring others. And
he's going to talk about forgiving
others. And then he turns the tables to
talking about loving others. And in
verse 14, he just says, "And over all
these virtues, put on love, which binds
them all together in perfect unity."
You see, our love for Christ is so
paramount that we begin to love others
with his love. And that leads us to
verse 17, which is this is the verse.
All right. This this is this is the crux
of the matter. Verse 17. And whatever
you do, whether in word or deed, do it
all in the name of the Lord Jesus,
giving thanks to God the Father through
him. That's the summary verse for
Colossians 3.
But it's more than that.
It's the summary verse for all of the
book of Colossians.
It's whatever you do, whether in word or
deed, do it all in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ.
That's our purpose. That's the fourth
segment. Your purpose. What's your
purpose? It's to live for Christ daily
and consistently, whether in word or
deed. He is the focus. He is the
priority. In week one, we learned that
Jesus isn't some decoration. He's the
foundation. Last week, Kyle talked about
how Jesus isn't the seasoning. He He is
the savior. He's the main course. If you
were to interview my family and friends
and ask them what or who is the most
important part of Dave's life, if you
perused my calendar or my finances, or
if you looked at my phone at my screen
time screen time usage, would it
communicate Jesus
or something else?
Recently, I saw a 45 second clip on
Instagram that really impacted me. To be
more accurate, it really messed me up.
And it comes back to this issue of
whether or not Jesus is really the
priority of my life. And the visual
chart that I'm going to show you goes
all the way back to the 1930s. It will
show how our priorities have changed in
the last 90 years. The chart shows how
we spend our waking hours outside of
work time.
And the relationships are are are pretty
predictable. Family, friends, school,
neighbors, church,
co-workers.
But then there's a new category that
gets introduced
about 20 years ago. And I want you to
see the gradual evolution or regression
that takes place over time with our
relationships with others. Watch this
with me.
This is an interesting graph and
at the end it's pretty shocking,
but it's interesting watching it change
throughout the
years.
co-workers too going up.
[Music]
>> The end is depressing though.
[Music]
Watch everything else.
[Music]
takes your breath away.
What a drastic reversal.
And when you see it over time like that,
you think it it happens gradually, but
then you see this gathering of momentum
and it actually becomes an onslaught.
This is not meant to be an indictment
if you're on your screens a lot. I I
understand that a lot a lot of you
that's how you do your job through your
phone or your iPad or your laptop. I I
get it.
This is not a judgment that I'm levying.
But it is a question that I am asking
and you you are the only one who can
answer it. Is Christ the priority of
your life? Or is he crowded out by your
clicking and scrolling of countless
people you've never met and never will
meet? Who do you allow to speak and
influence your life on a daily basis?
I'm sure that I'm I'm sure that you have
many godly voices, but sometimes we
allow good things to crowd out the best
thing. And lordship means that he is
number one. And if that truly is the
case, and it shouldn't be a chore for us
to prioritize him.
On Sunday night last week, I was on an
airplane. I was coming home. I stumbled
onto the fact while I was in the air
that that my son and daughter-in-law
were on another plane and they were
coming into Louisville. And so I'm
texting with my son back and forth and
we're both rather competitive. And so
we're texting back and forth and it
basically becomes a race to whose
airplane can get there. Now, it's
totally out of our control,
but my flight lands 3 minutes before
his.
I'm not sure why I felt the need to tell
you that
since I did not play any role whatsoever
in when we land.
So, I got there. I walked over to the
next gate and I waited for Sam and
Kathleen to come in. I didn't know at
the time that they were in row 31. So,
every person that came through that
door, I'm anticipating that it's them. I
mean, every person, I just think it's
them. It's them. It's them. And finally,
the longer it went and while I'm waiting
for my son to emerge, I instantly I have
this flashback
to something my parents used to do.
Because 36 years ago when I moved to
Louisville, my parents lived in
Cincinnati and that was a big Delta hub
at the time. Now I fly through Atlanta
to get to anywhere. But back then I
always flew through Cincinnati.
And so for a 5 to 10 year stretch
prior to 911, you could actually walk
straight to the gate where someone was
arriving.
And if I had an hour or if I had a
90minute layover, you know what would
happen?
My parents
My parents would drive 25 minutes. They
would park their car. They would walk 10
minutes to get to where my gate was. And
then they would wait for me to walk off
of that plane. And then we would sit and
we would talk for maybe 20 minutes or
maybe 30 minutes and then we would start
walking to my next gate and they would
walk with me and I would start to board
and I'd look back at them on the jet
bridge and I'd wave to them and they
would wave to me and then they would
walk 10 minutes back to their car and
then they would pay for their parking
and then they would drive 25 minutes
home.
They said, "That's a lot of time and
money and effort for a 20 minute
conversation."
Well, not if you're their child.
>> I had great parents.
They don't compare to my heavenly
father. And I tell you that story
because that's the way the Lord
feels about you.
He will make time for you.
Will you make time for him?
The Lord wants to milk every minute with
you. Jesus said, "Parents, if if if your
child asks you for a loaf of bread and
you give him a stone, no. If he asked
for a fish, will you give him a snake?"
No. If you know how to give good gifts
and you're evil, how much better are the
gifts from your heavenly father?
He's saying he longs to spend time with
you. He wants to be the priority of your
life because what God wants most is not
your performance, it's your presence. He
doesn't just want a place in your life.
He wants first place in your life. He
doesn't want to be a resident. He wants
to be the president. And when you make
him your priority, you'll find that he
has some new clothes for you. I can't
speak for you,
but perhaps your screen has distracted
you from your time with him. And that's
what I love about verse 7 of Colossians
3. You used to walk in these ways and
the life that you once lived. That's how
you used to live. But you have been
washed clean by the blood of Jesus.
You're to be different and distinctive.
Exchange your grave clothes for his
grace clothes. And don't go back to your
old wardrobe. And Jesus says, "When
you're ready to make me the priority of
your life, I will meet you at the cross
or I'll meet you at the baptistry."
It's the same thing
because in that baptistry you are
symbolically saying that you are dying
to an old way of life. You are being
buried and you're rising to walk in a
new way of life. When he is your
priority then your purpose becomes
clear. Here's your purpose.
Whatever you do whether in word or deed
do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus.