Girls Gone Bible - Winning the War Within w/ Pastor Philip Anthony Mitchell Transcript and Discussion

    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    



        
    


    
            
        
        
        
            

    
        
            Home
                            Transcribe From URL
                        Pricing
                            Brand Intelligence
                        Podcasts
            Categories
            About
            Contact
                        Submit Podcast
        
    
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                
            
            
                Submit Podcast 
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Home
                                Podcasts
                                                                    Transcribe
                                                                Pricing
                                                                    Brand Intelligence
                                                                About
                                Categories
                                Contact

                                                            
                        
                    
                    
                                            
                            
                                Sign In
                            
                        
                                    
            

        
    

            
                                               
                                                                                    
                        
                            
                                
                            
                        
                    
                                                                                        
                        
                            Transcribe From Audio/Video Link
                        
                    
                                    

        
        
            
                                
                    
                        
                        
                            HomeGirls Gone BibleWinning the War Within w/ Pastor Philip Anthony Mitchell
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                                Religion & Spirituality
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                                
                                                                    Share
                                                                    
                                                                        
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                        
                                                                    
                                                                
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                    
                                                        

                                                        
                                                    
                                                
                                                                                                Girls Gone Bible - Winning the War Within w/ Pastor Philip Anthony Mitchell
                                                                                                    Episode Date: June 19, 2026
                                                                                                hiii GGB :) our favorite is back. this episode is for anyone fighting battles no one else can see. the overthinking. the spiraling. the fear. the temptation. the stuff you keep trying to handle on you...r own. Pastor Philip Anthony Mitchell came on and truly preached in the most needed way. Winning the War Within is such a reminder that you don't have to win the battle by yourself, you just have to bring it to God. we loveeeee you Jesus loves you more. Ang & Ari ORDER OUR BOOK! You can order our new book "Out of the Wilderness 31 Devotions to Walk with God Through Your Hardest Seasons" at https://www.girlsgonebible.com/book JOIN US ON GGB+ 🥹❤ https://ggb.supportingcast.fm  COME SEE US ON TOUR: Tickets for our tour are now on sale. Go to https://www.GirlsGoneBible.com/tour WE LOVE YOU AND CANNOT WAIT TO SEE YOU!  Thanks to our sponsors for this episode. Richmont Graduate University https://www.richmont.edu Mint Mobile https://www.mintmobile.com/ggb Avocado Green Mattress https://www.avocadogreenmattress.com/ggb Shopify https://www.shopify.com/ggb Glorify https://www.glorify-app.com/ggb Active Skin Repair https://www.activeskinrepair.com Grand Canyon University https://www.gcu.edu Olive & June https://www.oliveandjune.com/ggb IQBAR Text GGB to 64000
                                                Read More
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                    
                                            
                
                
                    
                        
                             Transcript Discussion  (0)    Starting point is 00:00:03 
                                        This episode is brought to you by IQ Bar, our exclusive snack hydration and coffee sponsor.
                                         
                                        IQ Bar Protein bars, IQ Mix, Hydration Mixes, and IQ Joe mushroom coffees are the delicious, low sugar, brain and body fuel you need to win your day.
                                         
                                        And honestly, some days we're so busy doing life that we look up and realize that all we've had is coffee.
                                         
                                        And that's why we love IQ Bar.
                                         
                                        Their plant protein bars are such a smart snack because they are packed with protein, fiber, and have no added sugar.
                                         
                                        And we love that all of their products are made with clean and cream.
                                         
                                        that support both your body and your mind.
                                         
                                        And if you're someone who needs help drinking water,
                                            Starting point is 00:00:38 
                                        the IQ mix hydration sticks are amazing.
                                         
                                        Plus the IQ Joe mushroom coffee has become one of our favorite ways
                                         
                                        to start the morning with sustained energy and mental clarity.
                                         
                                        With over 20,000 five-star reviews and counting,
                                         
                                        more people than ever are fueling their busy lifestyles
                                         
                                        with IQ bars, brain and body boosting bars,
                                         
                                        hydration mixes, and mushroom coffees.
                                         
                                        Their ultimate sampler pack includes all three.
                                            Starting point is 00:01:00 
                                        And honestly, IQ bar has become part of our routine.
                                         
                                        We love grabbing an IQ bar when we're on the go.
                                         
                                        Their lemon blueberry bar is my current hyperfixation.
                                         
                                        And right now, IQ bar is offering our special podcast listeners 20% off all IQ bar products,
                                         
                                        including the ultimate sampler pack, plus free shipping.
                                         
                                        To get your 20% off, text GGB to 64,000.
                                         
                                        Text GGB to 64,000.
                                         
                                        That's GGB to 64,000.
                                            Starting point is 00:01:24 
                                        Message and data rates may apply.
                                         
                                        See terms for details.
                                         
                                        If you've ever walked through depression, heartbreak, anxiety, or trauma, you know how powerful
                                         
                                        it is when someone helps you find hope and healing. Today, nearly one in four adults experience a
                                         
                                        mental illness each year, and among young adults, that number rises to one in three. The need for
                                         
                                        compassionate counselors and trauma-informed ministry leaders has never been greater. And that's why we're
                                         
                                        so excited to tell you about Richmond Graduate University. Richmond equips future counselors and
                                         
                                        ministry leaders with the skills and compassion to help others heal and grow. Richmond specializes
                                            Starting point is 00:02:06 
                                        in richmond specializes
                                         
                                        richmond specializes in integrating clinical mental health counseling and spiritual formation
                                         
                                        advancing god's work of healing restoration and transformation in the lives of individuals
                                         
                                        churches and communities whether you're called to become a licensed counselor or ministry leader
                                         
                                        richmond offers master's degrees in counseling ministry a doctor of ministry degree and
                                         
                                        specialized certificates designed to equip you for work in these fields. If God is calling you into
                                         
                                        counseling or ministry, Richmond can help you take the next step. Apply for the fall semester by July 1st
                                         
                                        and use our promo code GGB to waive the $50 application fee. To learn more and apply, visit to learn more
                                            Starting point is 00:02:53 
                                        and apply, visit richmond.edu. You have the power to change lives through your career. Healing starts here.
                                         
                                        All right, guys. We are so excited today.
                                         
                                        We feel so honored because we have someone extremely special that has blessed us for a second time on Girls Gone Bible.
                                         
                                        A man who has genuinely changed my life, someone who's completely transformed the trajectory of my faith.
                                         
                                        2019 is my church, and every Sunday I encounter the Lord on my floor as a digital disciple,
                                         
                                        and it has completely changed me as a woman.
                                         
                                        Pastor Philip Mitchell.
                                         
                                        And thank you for having me.
                                            Starting point is 00:03:44 
                                        Your obedience.
                                         
                                        Your purity, your urgency, your deep love for people.
                                         
                                        I just said to your team that when I see you, I truly see Jesus.
                                         
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        And I appreciate that.
                                         
                                        You are as real as they come.
                                         
                                        And because of that, you are saving me.
                                         
                                        millions of people across the world. And we love you and we are so honored to have you here today.
                                            Starting point is 00:04:10 
                                        I love y'all. Y'all are my sisters. And I'm deeply honored to be here. Thank you for your kind
                                         
                                        words. I could say the same about you. You know, every time I'm in your presence, I feel the
                                         
                                        spirit of God and I feel the love of God. And even like Angie and I was just talking off,
                                         
                                        that you ladies, you are the real deal, right? You are the real deal. You live this.
                                         
                                        you suffer well you're serious about christ you love god's people and so i could say all the same
                                         
                                        things about you all and i love you with all my heart thank you for having me on the podcast again
                                         
                                        thank you pastor philip just letting everyone know we don't have tissues but i got it ready because
                                         
                                        you guys remember last time we pastor philip walks in the door i mean i i i took like an hour to do
                                            Starting point is 00:04:58 
                                        my makeup this second he walks in we're bawling our eyes out he's praying for us so we just want
                                         
                                        everyone to know that this is not a man who walks into a room and says, hey, guys, here I am. No, he walks
                                         
                                        in and says, hey, there you are and here's Jesus and let me pray for you. So someone who intentionally
                                         
                                        walks in and like wants to know what's going on with us. And let's be honest, you meet so many people
                                         
                                        in the space who don't see the person in front of them. When it's like a ministry context, you walk in
                                         
                                        and you're like, okay, cool, let's do the job. Let's do the thing. No, you walked in and you said,
                                         
                                        hey, you guys are people before we're doing ministry.
                                         
                                        So thank you for being who you are.
                                            Starting point is 00:05:36 
                                        Seriously.
                                         
                                        Absolutely.
                                         
                                        It's so funny.
                                         
                                        Every time I'll watch your sermon and we'll do a podcast,
                                         
                                        you always know when I watch you because I start flipping out on everybody.
                                         
                                        I'm like, I don't know what you want me to say.
                                         
                                        Time is running out.
                                         
                                        And Andrew will look at me and be like, you just watch.
                                            Starting point is 00:05:54 
                                        Did you just watch Passen Fill up?
                                         
                                        I'm like, yeah, I did.
                                         
                                        Just relax.
                                         
                                        Come on.
                                         
                                        We'll be in an Uber.
                                         
                                        And now he's like, I don't know about you, but time's running out.
                                         
                                        So what's up?
                                         
                                        She's like, leave that to Pastor Phil.
                                            Starting point is 00:06:07 
                                        I'm like, fine.
                                         
                                        But it is, though.
                                         
                                        No, it is.
                                         
                                        But it is, right?
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        It is.
                                         
                                        And we could laugh about it now, but it is.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 00:06:19 
                                        Right?
                                         
                                        And I say that a lot because I want believers to know that we don't have all the time.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        We think we have.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        I, you know, when I am acutely aware of the events that are happening right now in the world,
                                         
                                        both in our nation and outside of our nation.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 00:06:41 
                                        In the Middle East.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I'm looking at things that's happening with China and Russia.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I'm looking at how all these things are running parallel to biblical prophecy.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And there's just this burning sense in my heart when I kneel to pray.
                                         
                                        that God is like sending warnings,
                                            Starting point is 00:07:01 
                                        warnings trying to awaken his bar,
                                         
                                        his waking his children to realize that we are probably living in
                                         
                                        the last seconds of the church age.
                                         
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        And I just think people need to know that
                                         
                                        so we can take our walk more serious,
                                         
                                        but also take our call to spread the gospel
                                         
                                        and multiply disciples more serious.
                                            Starting point is 00:07:23 
                                        So even when, like for example,
                                         
                                        Ari, when you and I was talking,
                                         
                                        off camera. And Angie and I was talking about this too, how you ladies are going to continue
                                         
                                        your tour, right? And how you and I was just talking about, you could care less about a podcast.
                                         
                                        It's more than a podcast for you. It's more than a podcast for you ladies. You want to be with God's
                                         
                                        people. You want to be in the room. You want to teach and preach and wrap them in your arms.
                                         
                                        You want to lay hands on the sick and see them recover. You want to look them in their eyes when
                                         
                                        they're shedding tears, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:07:59 
                                        And you're talking like this,
                                         
                                        but that burden that is in you is that end-time burden
                                         
                                        that we need that goes beyond a studio,
                                         
                                        goes beyond moments like this,
                                         
                                        that we have to get the gospel to God's people.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        As many people as possible.
                                         
                                        So when I even think about you ladies,
                                            Starting point is 00:08:15 
                                        extending your tour to be with God's people,
                                         
                                        I think that even is the Holy Spirit,
                                         
                                        guiding you ladies to do that, right?
                                         
                                        We need to be out there in the highways and byways,
                                         
                                        making Jesus known.
                                         
                                        compelling as many people as possible to come into the kingdom.
                                         
                                        If we're not doing that, I don't even know what we're doing.
                                         
                                        I feel like if we're not about that life right now,
                                            Starting point is 00:08:38 
                                        I feel like we're not about anything, right?
                                         
                                        So just when I think about the extension of your tour
                                         
                                        and, you know, me saying that time is running out,
                                         
                                        I just think through multiple voices that Christ is raised up in this hour
                                         
                                        is trying to sound an alarm,
                                         
                                        both in our nation and around the world.
                                         
                                        that now is the hour for us to be serious about the things of the kingdom.
                                         
                                        100%.
                                            Starting point is 00:09:01 
                                        When we were preparing, and we've put so much prayer into this, like you are, it's so hard
                                         
                                        because, first of all, the point of this episode today with you is we want to know what the
                                         
                                        spirit is saying.
                                         
                                        We want to know what God wears heart is, what the warning is, what the encouragement
                                         
                                        is, what the exhortation is.
                                         
                                        as we were praying earlier, I was just praying that Lord, like, let there be an exhortation
                                         
                                        today for the body, just like the disciples did in the letters to the churches.
                                         
                                        Like, please speak today in a way that guides people because he's moving and we need to know
                                            Starting point is 00:09:40 
                                        where he's going.
                                         
                                        But then there's also so much that's on your life specifically.
                                         
                                        Like, it is undeniable.
                                         
                                        There's a move of God happening through you that is translated beyond.
                                         
                                        your city beyond your church and beyond America.
                                         
                                        Like all over the world,
                                         
                                        people are getting saved off of your sermons,
                                         
                                        off of your teaching, off of your preaching.
                                            Starting point is 00:10:04 
                                        And so you probably hate this term,
                                         
                                        but like you are the man of the hour.
                                         
                                        There's something so significant on your life right now.
                                         
                                        And we honor what God is doing through you.
                                         
                                        I,
                                         
                                        first I just want to ask one question that's like burning on my heart.
                                         
                                        You have such a sense,
                                         
                                        a sense of urgency and you're serious about the things of God.
                                            Starting point is 00:10:31 
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And the joy of the Lord is our strength.
                                         
                                        So I imagine, like, you have to experience joy, right?
                                         
                                        Yeah, I do.
                                         
                                        You do.
                                         
                                        I experience joy off the platform.
                                         
                                        Off the platform.
                                         
                                        Outside of podcast rooms.
                                            Starting point is 00:10:47 
                                        I experience the most joy when I'm alone with the Lord in my prayer room.
                                         
                                        I experience the most joy when I'm alone with my wife and my children.
                                         
                                        my family.
                                         
                                        When I'm with them, I experience a tremendous amount of joy.
                                         
                                        I love watching movies with my kids,
                                         
                                        taking walks with my wife, riding bikes with my sons.
                                         
                                        I experience a tremendous amount of joy.
                                         
                                        I'm off the camera when I'm with my family.
                                            Starting point is 00:11:16 
                                        But for me, when I'm on a platform, it's life or death.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        When I'm ministering to people, it is life or death.
                                         
                                        The joy of the Lord is in there.
                                         
                                        but it takes a backseat to the call in those moments to make Jesus know.
                                         
                                        I feel that any time we are speaking, whether you ladies are on tour in the room,
                                         
                                        or I'm preaching at Sunday morning at 2019 at our gatherings
                                         
                                        or wherever I'm traveling in America around the world,
                                            Starting point is 00:11:50 
                                        I feel like that can be the last time somebody may hear the gospel
                                         
                                        who's sitting in that room, right?
                                         
                                        That may be the last time that somebody hears the progress.
                                         
                                        of God's word. There's been testimony, stories of people who have left our gatherings and did not make it home.
                                         
                                        There was a brother in our church who left a gathering with a group of believers and jumped on a motorcycle to go home and he did not make it home.
                                         
                                        A few months ago, there was a family coming from another city to our gathering.
                                         
                                        And that young man, he was in his 20s. He lost his.
                                         
                                        his life that week. And he was planning to be in the gathering of 2019. And so life is,
                                            Starting point is 00:12:34 
                                        life is fragile. Yeah. And it is held in the palm of God's hands. And no one knows what day
                                         
                                        will be their last. I never know what Sunday will be my last. I never know what podcasts would be my last.
                                         
                                        All right. And since I never know what Sunday will be my last or what podcasts would be my last
                                         
                                        or what conference would be my last.
                                         
                                        If that is my last,
                                         
                                        I want to make sure that the scriptures were properly proclaimed,
                                         
                                        that Christ was exalted,
                                         
                                        that the audience heard the truth,
                                            Starting point is 00:13:12 
                                        and that I represented God well in that moment, right?
                                         
                                        And so if any Sunday's my last or any podcast, my last,
                                         
                                        they said, well, that was Philip Anthony Mitchell's last preaching.
                                         
                                        That was his last interview.
                                         
                                        was Christ exalted?
                                         
                                        Did we get around to any kind of gospel conversations?
                                         
                                        Was there, was there fidelity to the scriptures?
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 00:13:40 
                                        Was it properly exegeted and not Isogited?
                                         
                                        So for me, it's that serious.
                                         
                                        And that's not to say that we can't have humor and satire and proclamation,
                                         
                                        but I'm just not wired that way, right?
                                         
                                        for me it is life or death every time I stand to minister and so people may not see what
                                         
                                        appears to be like joy in those moments but I experience a lot of joy outside of those
                                         
                                        moments but for me those moments are they are life or death that's what they feel like for me
                                         
                                        I feel like I feel like even moments now where you know millions may watch this podcast or
                                            Starting point is 00:14:24 
                                        moments where I may be traveling or on the Sunday that is coming.
                                         
                                        I feel like those moments for me,
                                         
                                        I feel like I'm on the front line of warfare.
                                         
                                        I'm on the front line of battle.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And I feel like for me it's just not time to play around.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        So there is joy, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:14:46 
                                        There is joy.
                                         
                                        It's just off the platform.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        It's in the secret place and it's with my family.
                                         
                                        And it's with the people that are,
                                         
                                        I love when I'm spending time with them.
                                         
                                        Absolutely.
                                         
                                        This podcast is sponsored by active skin repair, a skin health brand that helps your skin
                                            Starting point is 00:15:07 
                                        heal using natural non-toxic medical grade ingredients.
                                         
                                        What makes active skin repair different is that it uses the same proprietary formulation
                                         
                                        trusted in hospitals.
                                         
                                        The key ingredient is hypochloric acid, a molecule your body naturally produces.
                                         
                                        When applied to the skin, it works by mimicking your immune response to cleanse,
                                         
                                        soothe irritation, reduce inflammation, and support healing. Active skin repair can be used for just about
                                         
                                        everything. Cut, scrapes, burns, sunburns, rashes, acne, eczema, rosacea, you name it. It's safe,
                                         
                                        non-toxic, and gentle enough for all skin types, all ages, and anywhere on the body or face.
                                            Starting point is 00:15:42 
                                        But what we love is that they've expanded beyond just healing sprays. Their hydrating serum for
                                         
                                        body and face is incredibly lightweight and packed with hyluronic acid to deeply hydrate and
                                         
                                        plump the skin, leaving you with that healthy, dewy glow. It's made with a hearty cream. It's made
                                         
                                        High quality ingredients sourced from Italy and is EWG approved,
                                         
                                        so you know it's both effective and clean with no heaviness or irritation.
                                         
                                        And you actually want to wear it every day.
                                         
                                        It's super sheer, hydrating, and layers perfectly under makeup while still protecting your skin.
                                         
                                        Trusted by over a million customers and clinicians with thousands of five-star reviews,
                                            Starting point is 00:16:13 
                                        active skin repair is simple, clean skin care you can feel good about,
                                         
                                        safe enough for everyone in your family, from the youngest to the oldest.
                                         
                                        To learn more and get 20% off your order, visit active skin repair.com.
                                         
                                        use code GGB. You can also find active skin repair on Amazon and at your local CVS.
                                         
                                        Guys, we're so excited to tell you about our sponsor, avocado green mattress.
                                         
                                        Their certified organic mattresses are specifically designed to relieve pressure points,
                                         
                                        support your body the way it needs, and help you actually get the deep, restorative sleep
                                         
                                        you've been missing. Every mattress is made with thoughtfully sourced materials and built with
                                            Starting point is 00:16:52 
                                        real care, so you get incredible sleep night after night. Listen, one thing about us, we love a good nap.
                                         
                                        Like if there were spiritual gifts for sleeping, we'd both be in the running.
                                         
                                        But seriously, when I invest in something for my home, I want it to last.
                                         
                                        And I love that avocado focuses on real materials and thoughtful craftsmanship.
                                         
                                        Their mattresses are supportive, comfortable, and feel intentionally made,
                                         
                                        not mass-produced, which makes it feel like such a worthwhile investment.
                                         
                                        And honestly, we spend a third of our life sleeping.
                                         
                                        Why are we out here sleeping on something that feels like a college futon?
                                            Starting point is 00:17:24 
                                        No thank you.
                                         
                                        And what I love most is that their products are made with real,
                                         
                                        certified organic materials that don't just feel better, they provide incredible support,
                                         
                                        breathability, and durability. And because they're made to last, it's also one of the most
                                         
                                        sustainable choices you can make. Avocado products are made, not manufactured, and thoughtfully
                                         
                                        crafted with real materials to deliver lasting comfort and support. Go to avocadogreenmatress.com
                                         
                                        slash GGB to check out their mattresses and furniture sale. That's avocado greenmatress.com
                                         
                                        slash GGB. Avocado green mattress.com slash GGB. Starting something new is terrifying. I think sometimes people
                                            Starting point is 00:18:04 
                                        look at GGB and forget that there was a day when it was just an idea. We had so many what ifs.
                                         
                                        What if no one listens? What if people think we're crazy? What if we fail? But one thing we've learned
                                         
                                        is that fear doesn't mean you're not called. Sometimes you just have to take a leap and trust that God
                                         
                                        will meet you there. And if you're building something, a business, a brand, a dream, you need the right
                                         
                                        tools around you. And that's why we love Shopify. Shopify is the commerce platform.
                                         
                                        behind millions of businesses around the world, from brands just getting started to some of the
                                         
                                        biggest names out there. And honestly, they make it so easy. Whether you're creating your first
                                         
                                        website, launching products, trying to market your business, or figuring out inventory and
                                            Starting point is 00:18:40 
                                        analytics, Shopify puts everything in one place. Get started with your own design studio. With
                                         
                                        hundreds of ready-to-use templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store that matches
                                         
                                        your brand style. They even have AI tools that can help with product descriptions and enhancing
                                         
                                        product photography. And if you've ever thought what if nobody knows about my brand, Shopify helps
                                         
                                        you find your customers with easy to run email and social media campaigns. And what if I get stuck?
                                         
                                        Shopify is always around to share advice with their award-winning 24-7 customer service. And best yet,
                                         
                                        Shopify is your commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to
                                         
                                        international shipping to processing returns and beyond. It's time to turn those what-ifs into
                                            Starting point is 00:19:21 
                                        with Shopify today. Sign up for.
                                         
                                        for your $1 per month trial today at Shopify.com slash GGB.
                                         
                                        Go to Shopify.com slash GGB.
                                         
                                        That's Shopify.com slash GGB.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Can you tell people, I just, you just have a fire that it doesn't burn out.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And a purity, I was just talking to your team.
                                            Starting point is 00:19:44 
                                        And one thing they said is you just, you make sure that they burn with purity.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Can you talk about just keeping that fire with the Lord?
                                         
                                        Lord and the purity of the heart.
                                         
                                        So that's, yeah.
                                         
                                        I think, I think in our humanity, we all experience seasons of drift.
                                         
                                        I think we are prone to wander.
                                         
                                        It's in our fallen nature.
                                            Starting point is 00:20:14 
                                        I think we all go through hard times and challenges and trials that extinguish our fire from time to time.
                                         
                                        And push us into places where we feel cold.
                                         
                                        maybe distant from God, right?
                                         
                                        And I say that as a preference to what I want to say
                                         
                                        to encourage the people who are watching
                                         
                                        who may be in a place right now
                                         
                                        where they feel far away from God
                                         
                                        or their fire has waned to some degree,
                                            Starting point is 00:20:39 
                                        I want to level set and say it happens to all of us, right?
                                         
                                        I'm sure it happens to you ladies.
                                         
                                        It happens to me.
                                         
                                        There are times when I feel like my fire may burn a little dim
                                         
                                        and it has to be reignited.
                                         
                                        I think for me, when the Spirit of God was poured out on 120 disciples on the day of Pentecost,
                                         
                                        the Lord poured out his spirit.
                                         
                                        He manifested himself in tongues of fire.
                                            Starting point is 00:21:10 
                                        It was the first thing that the Holy Spirit touched in men was their mouth.
                                         
                                        I said something like tongues of fire appeared in the room over them and it rested on all of them 120.
                                         
                                        and they begin to prophesy and speak in other tongues or other languages.
                                         
                                        And when I think about that, the first thing that Holy Spirit touched on men,
                                         
                                        when he was poured out on their Pentecost, was their mouths,
                                         
                                        and the mouth is connected to the heart.
                                         
                                        And so if we read the text carefully, we understand that God,
                                         
                                        he set those 120 on fire.
                                            Starting point is 00:21:44 
                                        And I think it's God's will for his people to be on fire.
                                         
                                        I don't think it's God's will for us to be lukewarm,
                                         
                                        and I don't think it's God's will for us to be distant.
                                         
                                        from him, I think it's his will for us to be on fire, even if it is a quiet fire.
                                         
                                        There is a fire that is voracious and loud that bears the name of Philip Anthony Mitchell,
                                         
                                        but then there is a fire of a old woman that sits in the back of a church and nobody knows
                                         
                                        her name.
                                         
                                        And she's not famous and she doesn't have a global platform.
                                            Starting point is 00:22:14 
                                        She doesn't have a global podcast.
                                         
                                        But when she kneels to pray, demons tremble, right?
                                         
                                        And when she goes into a prayer closet, she shifts atmospheres.
                                         
                                        And so it's not about a platform in the name.
                                         
                                        It's just how intimate are you are with Christ.
                                         
                                        The fire is symbolic of how close you are to Christ.
                                         
                                        If God is a consuming fire, then how do we get close to him and not be burned?
                                         
                                        If God is a consuming fire, I don't see how we can be intimate with him and not be burned.
                                            Starting point is 00:22:42 
                                        And so when we talk about fire, it's really how intimate are we are with Christ.
                                         
                                        I think the more we read and the more
                                         
                                        we pray, the more
                                         
                                        we consecrate, the more we fast,
                                         
                                        the more we distance
                                         
                                        ourselves from
                                         
                                        iniquity and sin,
                                         
                                        the more we pursue
                                            Starting point is 00:23:04 
                                        holiness and purity of the heart, the more
                                         
                                        we grow on fire. And when that fire is cold, we have to go back
                                         
                                        to the source. The source
                                         
                                        is Jesus himself. Yeah. Right?
                                         
                                        It is me going back
                                         
                                        into the secret place and being
                                         
                                        honest, say,
                                         
                                        hands. Yeah, this is, this is,
                                            Starting point is 00:23:24 
                                        It's all right.
                                         
                                        You're right.
                                         
                                        So to me,
                                         
                                        it's me going back to the secret place and saying,
                                         
                                        Lord,
                                         
                                        I am in a dry place, right?
                                         
                                        It's me going back to the secret place and saying,
                                         
                                        Lord,
                                            Starting point is 00:23:38 
                                        I have drifted away from you and being honest.
                                         
                                        It's me getting around community who's on fire
                                         
                                        and being able to tell them that I've drifted from the Lord.
                                         
                                        Can you pray for me?
                                         
                                        It's me putting myself in gatherings where people on fire.
                                         
                                        It's me watching across.
                                         
                                        across the camera, uh, 2019 where people are fire. It's, it's me acknowledging, um, when I am in a place
                                         
                                        where I know how far away from God and, and doing the necessary things to throw wood back on that
                                            Starting point is 00:24:08 
                                        fight. For the community, through the scriptures, through prayer, through fasting, through all this,
                                         
                                        through purity, I think God desires for us to be on fire. And when we say God desires for us to be
                                         
                                        on fire, what we're saying is God desires for us to be very, very intimate. Yeah.
                                         
                                        That's such a great distinction because I think so many people can hear being on fire as being bold and being the loudest one in the room and being the biggest one in the room and that's not the case.
                                         
                                        We didn't even plan on going in this direction, but really quickly, you talk about suffering a lot. We talk about suffering a lot. I went through a season within the past few months of my life where it's been difficult. And the fire that I feel when I'm on.
                                         
                                        top of the world, it wasn't there.
                                         
                                        So what do I do when I don't feel as on fire,
                                         
                                        when I don't feel like I love Jesus as much as I did before,
                                            Starting point is 00:25:04 
                                        when I feel like my problems and my pain are bigger than Jesus.
                                         
                                        It's just the truth.
                                         
                                        It's not the truth, but it feels like it's the truth in the moment.
                                         
                                        And during that season, my main focus was staying faithful when I was vulnerable.
                                         
                                        Staying faithful when I was frail.
                                         
                                        Can you talk to people about discipline when you're suffering
                                         
                                        and just like how you can be disciplined in a way
                                         
                                        that doesn't lead to being religious
                                            Starting point is 00:25:31 
                                        but being disciplined in a way that leads you back to the fire?
                                         
                                        Yeah, that's really good.
                                         
                                        I think it's important for us to level set and say
                                         
                                        to allow those who are listening to understand
                                         
                                        that that is normal, right?
                                         
                                        I think we should normalize suffering and pain and the outgrowth of that
                                         
                                        that make us sometimes draw away from God.
                                         
                                        That is not abnormal.
                                            Starting point is 00:26:04 
                                        And I think there is grace in the scriptures for that.
                                         
                                        When I read the Psalms, I love the Psalms because my mother, specifically my mother
                                         
                                        and my father, when I was young, they would, I would say force me to read the Psalms,
                                         
                                        even though I wasn't a believer.
                                         
                                        And that seed was in me.
                                         
                                        So when I get saved, I would come back to the Psalms often.
                                         
                                        And one of the things I love about the Psalms is that the Psalms, the largest book that we have preserved for us in the scriptures,
                                         
                                        it gives us the full array of all human emotion, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:26:39 
                                        So in the Psalms, we see everything from radical joy to radical sadness, right?
                                         
                                        We see the human emotions from being on mountaintops and being in valleys.
                                         
                                        And so when we read the Psalms, we see the full, full array of all human emotions on the spectrum from the far right to the far left.
                                         
                                        And the fact that it is in there and the fact that the Psalms were written by David and Moses and other men inspired by the Holy Spirit, it gives us permission.
                                         
                                        Watch this, to feel.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        It gives us permission to be broken.
                                            Starting point is 00:27:13 
                                        It gives us permission to cry, to weep, to mourn, and to even.
                                         
                                        question God in moments like God, why do you feel so far away from me?
                                         
                                        It gives us permission to watch us to be humans who God understands.
                                         
                                        I love when the scripture says that we were made from dust and our frailties, right?
                                         
                                        And I say that because what the enemy does sometimes when we go through seasons like what you're
                                         
                                        gone through and what you are going through, when we go through seasons like that, the temptation
                                         
                                        would be for the enemy to make us feel so condemned for our feelings and make us feel that
                                         
                                        God has mad at us for our feelings.
                                            Starting point is 00:27:51 
                                        But we have to remember that he is a loving father.
                                         
                                        He's the same person that not only aspired the Psalms through those writers, but invites
                                         
                                        us to come back to him in those times where we feel broken, right?
                                         
                                        And so I want to first respond by just saying to the person who's watching, I want
                                         
                                        to normalize pain.
                                         
                                        I want to normalize suffering.
                                         
                                        I want to normalize the human things we go through that almost creates distance between
                                         
                                        us and God. I want to say to somebody
                                            Starting point is 00:28:19 
                                        watching those things are normal
                                         
                                        and they should not condemn themselves when they feel
                                         
                                        that way, right? God
                                         
                                        gives us grace
                                         
                                        to feel and has given us
                                         
                                        emotions to feel. So
                                         
                                        that's number one.
                                         
                                        But number two,
                                            Starting point is 00:28:35 
                                        I think that we need to have a better
                                         
                                        hermeneutic and theology of
                                         
                                        suffering. I think
                                         
                                        in the West, we treat
                                         
                                        suffering like failure.
                                         
                                        Right. Exactly. Like a disease.
                                         
                                        And because we hide behind veneers of false perfection,
                                         
                                        because of our platforms and our acclaim and our fame,
                                            Starting point is 00:29:01 
                                        we have people who move around the body of Christ
                                         
                                        and look at them and where they are
                                         
                                        and we think they have no problems, they have no issues.
                                         
                                        I think that does people a disservice.
                                         
                                        I think one of the most beautiful things we can do for the body of Christ,
                                         
                                        especially when you're a person who has influence,
                                         
                                        is pull back the curtain every now and then and let them see your humanity.
                                         
                                        Let them see that you can be vulnerable.
                                            Starting point is 00:29:27 
                                        Let them see that you're going through suffering.
                                         
                                        Let them see you're going through pain.
                                         
                                        So they have hope that even the people we call our heroes,
                                         
                                        they are suffering too.
                                         
                                        Everybody's dealing with something, right?
                                         
                                        And this is why I teach our church that we have to learn to live well,
                                         
                                        but we also have to learn to suffer well.
                                         
                                        And we have to have a good theology of suffering.
                                            Starting point is 00:29:48 
                                        suffering is part of the Christian experience.
                                         
                                        Let me say this again.
                                         
                                        Suffering is part of the Christian experience.
                                         
                                        There is no walk with Jesus without suffering.
                                         
                                        And there is a beauty in suffering.
                                         
                                        And the beauty in suffering is when we are suffering for righteousness
                                         
                                        and when we are suffering because we're in the will of God,
                                         
                                        then in those moments, even through pain and through tears,
                                            Starting point is 00:30:18 
                                        we can whisper in our broken and say,
                                         
                                        Lord, thank you, that you have allowed me
                                         
                                        to suffer with you and to identify with your suffering,
                                         
                                        that I get to step into suffering with you.
                                         
                                        And as we step into suffering with him,
                                         
                                        we are brought closer to him in our suffering.
                                         
                                        We are shaped in our character because of our suffering.
                                         
                                        Our faith is strengthened because our suffering.
                                            Starting point is 00:30:43 
                                        We identify with Christ in our suffering.
                                         
                                        There is something beautiful in suffering.
                                         
                                        that unites us with Jesus in such a way
                                         
                                        that just being on mountaintops will never do.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        And I think when we teach it that way,
                                         
                                        we can learn to wipe tears from our eyes
                                         
                                        while thanking them at the same time.
                                            Starting point is 00:31:04 
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        That God, although I'm in pain right now
                                         
                                        and suffering right now,
                                         
                                        I know that you are with me in this
                                         
                                        and that you are shaping something in me
                                         
                                        as a result of this
                                         
                                        and that you will walk with me all the way through this valley
                                         
                                        until we meet the base of the next mountaintop
                                            Starting point is 00:31:22 
                                        that we will climb together.
                                         
                                        And so if we try to eliminate that from our story,
                                         
                                        then we will pull out of the pages,
                                         
                                        even though what I'm about to say sounds counterintuitive.
                                         
                                        We would rip out of the pages of our story
                                         
                                        some of the best chapters
                                         
                                        if we don't allow suffering to be a part of our story
                                         
                                        and embrace it as sons and daughters.
                                            Starting point is 00:31:44 
                                        We have to, yeah, we have to.
                                         
                                        And extract from it,
                                         
                                        all of the good things that come out of suffering.
                                         
                                        And I believe because of the scriptures
                                         
                                        that there's some suffering,
                                         
                                        it is God's gift to us.
                                         
                                        You remember the Apostle Paul,
                                         
                                        when he's sitting in a prison cell,
                                            Starting point is 00:32:07 
                                        he penned several letters to the churches in the prison cell.
                                         
                                        One of them was the letter he wrote to the church at Philippi,
                                         
                                        which was the first church planted on the continent of Europe.
                                         
                                        and he's sitting in a Roman prison cell.
                                         
                                        He writes this letter to the church at Philippi.
                                         
                                        And around the back half of chapter one,
                                         
                                        he says he talks about suffering being a gift
                                         
                                        that's granted to us from God.
                                            Starting point is 00:32:32 
                                        He connects suffering and granted.
                                         
                                        Like who says that in the same sentence, right?
                                         
                                        Who uses the word suffering and granted in the same sentence?
                                         
                                        And so when we see sometimes suffering like a gift from God,
                                         
                                        sometimes we have to look past the pain and say,
                                         
                                        God, what are you trying to do in me
                                         
                                        as you are allowing me to go through this suffering?
                                         
                                        Like he's working something in you right now, Angie,
                                            Starting point is 00:32:58 
                                        as you're going through your season of suffering.
                                         
                                        I won't talk about it on camera.
                                         
                                        You and I talked about it off camera,
                                         
                                        but what you're going through right now,
                                         
                                        God has allowed that, right?
                                         
                                        And he's allowed that for some good in your life.
                                         
                                        And for you, Ari, some of the things that you go,
                                         
                                        through in your own suffering, like God allows that for some good in your life. And to the brothers
                                            Starting point is 00:33:20 
                                        and sisters watching who are suffering now, not suffering for foolishness. Yeah. That separate that,
                                         
                                        right? Not, not suffering for iniquity because of rebellion and disobedience and sin. I'm not talking
                                         
                                        about, there's a type of suffering people go through because of disobedience. And there's a type of
                                         
                                        suffering people go through because of rebellion and pride and inequity. So I'm not talking about that.
                                         
                                        I'm talking about a suffering that we go through for righteousness
                                         
                                        and a suffering we endure because God grants it to us.
                                         
                                        God, what are you doing in me in this?
                                         
                                        What can I learn?
                                            Starting point is 00:33:54 
                                        Always.
                                         
                                        How is it shaping me to be a better man and a better woman?
                                         
                                        I'm suffering right now, right?
                                         
                                        I'm suffering in my body, right?
                                         
                                        I'm suffering from social persecution, right?
                                         
                                        I'm suffering from death threats on my life.
                                         
                                        I'm suffering from, there's all command of things right now in my life
                                         
                                        that I'm suffering from.
                                            Starting point is 00:34:12 
                                        And in it all, the Lord does not completely remove it.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        But he's gracious in it.
                                         
                                        There is fruit in it.
                                         
                                        There is, there is, there is, there is lessons being learned in it, right?
                                         
                                        And in it, it keeps us on our knees, right?
                                         
                                        The Lord would never create a life for us that makes him unnecessary.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 00:34:38 
                                        Even our your most favorite preacher, the platform that we covered, we think if we get there, we have a big staff, or we get to the bag, or if we finally get married, or if we get the fill in the blank, I'll be suffer free.
                                         
                                        You will never create a life for us that makes them necessary.
                                         
                                        So you will always leave a little bit of suffering in our life.
                                         
                                        and it's for our good
                                         
                                        and as for his glory.
                                         
                                        Do you feel like you being sick
                                         
                                        going through your health issues
                                         
                                        has changed your faith?
                                            Starting point is 00:35:20 
                                        How do you look at God as healer?
                                         
                                        Has that changed at all?
                                         
                                        And how does that look for you?
                                         
                                        What does that look like right now?
                                         
                                        Right now I am
                                         
                                        dealing with
                                         
                                        a mysterious medical condition.
                                         
                                        I'm seeing a specialist.
                                            Starting point is 00:35:40 
                                        I'm believing God for my healing.
                                         
                                        I was in a jam, you know.
                                         
                                        I posted, you know, when I was laid up in a medical bed.
                                         
                                        And I did that because I want people to see that my life is not perfect.
                                         
                                        And that I'm suffering with the brothers and sisters in.
                                         
                                        And at the same time, the Sunday after I was in that medical bed,
                                         
                                        I'm preaching that Sunday, Acts chapter 2.
                                         
                                        about the coming of the spirit,
                                            Starting point is 00:36:10 
                                        and the Holy Spirit hijacks two of our gatherings.
                                         
                                        You know, I preach three times on a Sunday,
                                         
                                        and he just pours out his spirit, God, in a mighty way upon us,
                                         
                                        in our last gathering.
                                         
                                        I feel the Spirit of God instruct me to just preach healing to the people,
                                         
                                        doing an altar call for healing.
                                         
                                        And I'm doing an altar call for healing while I'm sick in my own body.
                                         
                                        I'm believing God for healing while I'm sick in my own body, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:36:45 
                                        like the doctors are trying to rule out prostate cancer
                                         
                                        and they're trying to rule out kidney disease
                                         
                                        and they're trying to rule out all these other things.
                                         
                                        And I have 100% faith as I'm doing that altar call
                                         
                                        that God is healing people in the room
                                         
                                        while I'm sick in my own body.
                                         
                                        While people are standing at the altar
                                         
                                        and while they're coming down from the risers
                                            Starting point is 00:37:11 
                                        and while they're bawling their eyes out
                                         
                                        with their face on the altar,
                                         
                                        There is nothing in me.
                                         
                                        There's not even an ounce of doubt in me in that moment that God is healing people in the room.
                                         
                                        Both he's healing physical bodies.
                                         
                                        He's healing minds who've been battling with all kind of mental trauma.
                                         
                                        He's healing hearts that have been battling with emotional trauma.
                                         
                                        And there is not even an ounce of doubt in my heart in that moment.
                                            Starting point is 00:37:36 
                                        So good.
                                         
                                        That God is healing people in that moment and healing people across the camera.
                                         
                                        Not even a smidget of doubt is in me while I'm sick in my own body.
                                         
                                        right because I believe that that I don't have to be healed to preach healing yes I can preach
                                         
                                        healing because it's a biblical thing to preach because it's who he is I can preach healing because
                                         
                                        that's who he is yeah that's right I can preach healing because Christ is a healer that's right
                                         
                                        even while I'm carrying sickness in my own body I can still preach because my sickness does not
                                         
                                        change his character yeah and my sickness does not change his nature that's right
                                            Starting point is 00:38:12 
                                        And my sickness does not change the truth about God's word, right?
                                         
                                        There is nothing that you and I are going through that changes the truth of Scripture.
                                         
                                        That is so good.
                                         
                                        And there is nothing that you and I are going through that changes the character of who he is, right?
                                         
                                        So it does not matter if I'm sick in my body.
                                         
                                        I can still preach healing because he is a healer.
                                         
                                        I can preach healing because the scripted teaches us.
                                         
                                        These signs and wonders will follow those who believe they will lay hands on the sick and the sick shall recover.
                                            Starting point is 00:38:42 
                                        right the scripture teaches us about the power of prayers the prayers the prayers of the righteous availeth much right
                                         
                                        and so me battling my own medical issue does not negate me from having faith for healing for brothers
                                         
                                        and sisters and at the same time while i'm laying hands on a sister or brother i'm laying hands
                                         
                                        on myself right and so i'm not going to not believe christ as a healer or his ability to heal
                                         
                                        because I'm battling my own medical issues.
                                         
                                        My, I don't want to say condition, my temporary circumstance.
                                         
                                        Yes.
                                         
                                        It's not negate the goodness of Christ and his character and his nature and his word.
                                            Starting point is 00:39:24 
                                        As I'm talking to you right now, I believe I will be and I believe I am right now.
                                         
                                        In Jesus.
                                         
                                        Healed in Jesus' name.
                                         
                                        Yep.
                                         
                                        I believe that and I'm not worried.
                                         
                                        It's not going to hinder me.
                                         
                                        not only doing God's work, but believing for healing for other people.
                                         
                                        This episode is brought to you by Glorify, the number one Christian daily devotional app.
                                            Starting point is 00:39:50 
                                        One of the greatest ways to stay connected to God throughout the day is this app, Glorify.
                                         
                                        And let's be real, some days you're opening Instagram before you open your Bible.
                                         
                                        And we love that with Glorify, you can just grab your phone and immediately be brought back to what actually matters.
                                         
                                        You'll love starting your mornings with the Bible passage of the day in the daily devotional.
                                         
                                        And on those days when life feels so overwhelming, you can put on one of their guided meditations or worship playlist and just sit with the Lord for a few minutes.
                                         
                                        And honestly, one of our favorite things is ending the day with their sleep meditations.
                                         
                                        There's something so peaceful about falling asleep with your heart and mind fixed on Jesus.
                                         
                                        Whether you've been walking with the Lord for years or you're just beginning to explore your faith, Glorify has something for you.
                                            Starting point is 00:40:31 
                                        Listeners to GGB can get full access to Glorify for just 2999 for the entire year.
                                         
                                        That's Glorify's lowest price ever.
                                         
                                        When you download the glorify app now at glorify dash app.com slash GGB,
                                         
                                        feel closer to God this year with glorify.
                                         
                                        Get full access all year for 2999 at glorify dash app.com slash GGB.
                                         
                                        That's glorify dash app.com slash GGB.
                                         
                                        You guys know one thing about us.
                                         
                                        We love being girls.
                                            Starting point is 00:41:03 
                                        Like there's just something about having your nails done
                                         
                                        that makes you feel like you can conquer the world.
                                         
                                        Suddenly your coffee tastes better.
                                         
                                        You're texting with more confidence.
                                         
                                        It just changes.
                                         
                                        things. And honestly, I don't always want to sit in a salon for two hours, try to find parking,
                                         
                                        and spend a small fortune every couple of weeks. And that's why we've been loving olive in June.
                                         
                                        Everything you need for a salon quality manicure is in one box, with salon grade tools designed
                                            Starting point is 00:41:27 
                                        just for DIY. You can customize it with your choice of six polishes, the polish doesn't chip,
                                         
                                        and last seven days or more, and each manicure breaks down to just $2. And can we talk about the
                                         
                                        pressons? They look so real. They're non-damaging, and you can literally have a manny in less than
                                         
                                        10 minutes, which is amazing for the girls who are busy but still want to feel cute.
                                         
                                        You guys, Avery Wood's new collection of pressons is gorgeous.
                                         
                                        Honestly, we just love being able to have beautiful nails whenever we want on our own time.
                                         
                                        Visit olive and june.com slash ggb for 20% off your first system.
                                         
                                        That's O-L-I-V-E-A-N-D-J-U-N-E dot com slash G-GB for 20% off your first system.
                                            Starting point is 00:42:08 
                                        Girls Gone Bible is proud to be sponsored by Grand Canyon University,
                                         
                                        an affordable, private, non-profit Christian University based in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona.
                                         
                                        They say higher education is outdated, irrelevant.
                                         
                                        GCU doesn't settle for the status quo.
                                         
                                        They shatter it.
                                         
                                        Grand Canyon University is one of the largest universities in the country.
                                         
                                        At GCU, academically rigorous, industry-driven programs are built to move at the speed of relevance,
                                         
                                        with practical skills, career readiness, and opportunity for every learner.
                                            Starting point is 00:42:35 
                                        As of December 2025, GCU offered 380 programs overall, including 150,000.
                                         
                                        degree programs, 180 emphasis and 56 certificate programs.
                                         
                                        GCU believes education shouldn't be a privilege, but an affordable path forward for all.
                                         
                                        Grounded in Christian truth, GCU works to empower the next generation to lead with integrity,
                                         
                                        serve with purpose and help transform their communities, building a future that matters.
                                         
                                        GCU is purpose-driven education.
                                         
                                        Take action.
                                         
                                        Find your purpose at GCU, private, Christian, affordable, non-profit.
                                            Starting point is 00:43:06 
                                        Visit gCU.
                                         
                                        to learn more.
                                         
                                        It's not.
                                         
                                        But pray for me.
                                         
                                        We're asking everyone to join in.
                                         
                                        Can everybody be praying for him?
                                         
                                        Pray for me.
                                         
                                        And can I just take a moment to just thank
                                            Starting point is 00:43:21 
                                        everybody who, right?
                                         
                                        If you're watching this podcast
                                         
                                        and you have
                                         
                                        any
                                         
                                        knowledge of my
                                         
                                        post that I made or
                                         
                                        my temporary momentary affliction and you have prayed for me can I just say to your audience thank
                                         
                                        you thank them for anybody who has prayed for me I appreciate that so much it means everything to
                                            Starting point is 00:43:49 
                                        me oh you are so loved and cherished and thank you Jesus for your life you are um we want to ask a
                                         
                                        couple of questions I really want to ask you if there is like a problem
                                         
                                        that you made to God.
                                         
                                        And these are like very intimate questions.
                                         
                                        So if there's anything you don't want to share, that's totally fine.
                                         
                                        Is there anything in your walk with Jesus,
                                         
                                        like a promise that you made, that you kept, that you never broke,
                                         
                                        that has, you believe potentially is one of the reasons why the Lord has trusted you so much in this season.
                                            Starting point is 00:44:26 
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        You know, the Holy Spirit told me you were going to ask me that today?
                                         
                                        Oh.
                                         
                                        You know, this morning when I was getting ready to come here,
                                         
                                        I was getting dressed.
                                         
                                        the Holy Spirit told me
                                         
                                        that someone, one of you two would ask me this question.
                                         
                                        And I don't even know why, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:44:52 
                                        But the Holy Spirit told me one of you would ask me this question.
                                         
                                        So I could testify.
                                         
                                        Two promises I've made to God.
                                         
                                        When I was two years or so into my walk with Christ,
                                         
                                        I was a new believer.
                                         
                                        And I had an epic failure in my life.
                                         
                                        I heard a lot of people in that season.
                                         
                                        hurt my family, I heard church members.
                                            Starting point is 00:45:26 
                                        I had an epic failure in my life.
                                         
                                        And after that failure, I was in a back room of a church facility
                                         
                                        and I was staring at a podium.
                                         
                                        And I was looked at that podium and I said,
                                         
                                        man, Lord, I walked with you for two and a half years.
                                         
                                        I guess that's it. I'm done, right?
                                         
                                        There's no bouncing back from my mistake.
                                         
                                        and I guess the two and a half years that I walk with you
                                            Starting point is 00:45:57 
                                        and the one, two times I got a chance to preach,
                                         
                                        it was good while it lasted.
                                         
                                        And I was staring at that podium when I said that,
                                         
                                        thinking to myself that my time serving Jesus in ministry was over.
                                         
                                        And I walked away from like ministry,
                                         
                                        thinking I would just be a lay person all my life.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And two years after that, I was in Bible college, and they asked me to preach a chapel.
                                            Starting point is 00:46:32 
                                        And I had not been behind a pulpit or done any kind of ministry for like two solid years.
                                         
                                        I was like Peter, who felt like I dishonored the Lord.
                                         
                                        And I walked away from the Lord like Peter did, like he went back to being a fisherman.
                                         
                                        But the Lord, he met me and he restored me.
                                         
                                        when they came and asked me to preach chapel,
                                         
                                        when I thought I was unusable.
                                         
                                        And I fasted for a week, and I studied the text.
                                         
                                        And before I got up to preach that chapel,
                                            Starting point is 00:47:21 
                                        I made a promise to God that if he would anoint me again to preach,
                                         
                                        I would be faithful in my proclamation until he called me home.
                                         
                                        That was in 2009, that was almost two decades ago.
                                         
                                        that I made that promise to the Lord if he would anoint me to preach again.
                                         
                                        I would be faithful in my proclamation.
                                         
                                        And I would honor, I would honor him every time I stood on a platform to proclaim his word.
                                         
                                        I've kept that promise to him for almost 20 years.
                                         
                                        Kept that promise to him for almost 20 years.
                                            Starting point is 00:48:26 
                                        By God's grace, I, uh, I intend to keep that promise to him.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        until he calls me home.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        So, like I even said to our church during our acts, one and two series,
                                         
                                        I said that in my whole ministry and my whole life is a second chance.
                                         
                                        And I intend to make good with my second chance.
                                         
                                        That is one promise I made to the Lord.
                                            Starting point is 00:49:04 
                                        That if he would give me this grace, I intend to keep that promise.
                                         
                                        And the Holy Spirit told me you would ask me that.
                                         
                                        That's so great.
                                         
                                        I just need to get that off my chest.
                                         
                                        I've never talked about that on a podcast.
                                         
                                        Thank you, Jesus.
                                         
                                        Did you have a second one that you wanted to?
                                         
                                        Yes.
                                            Starting point is 00:49:36 
                                        A second promise I made to God was when we changed the name of our church from victory to 2019.
                                         
                                        In January 23 and 183 disciples in our church.
                                         
                                        I'm preaching in an empty high school auditorium.
                                         
                                        to 183 disciples
                                         
                                        and there are seats everywhere
                                         
                                        you can come an hour late
                                         
                                        and still get a seat
                                         
                                        I made a promise to God
                                            Starting point is 00:50:06 
                                        that I will be faithful to preach
                                         
                                        to whomever
                                         
                                        you put in front of me
                                         
                                        whether the room is full
                                         
                                        or the room is empty
                                         
                                        I will not bend in the scriptures
                                         
                                        and I made that promise to him
                                         
                                        and I intend to keep that one too
                                            Starting point is 00:50:23 
                                        with his strength
                                         
                                        until he calls me home
                                         
                                        those are two promises I made to God.
                                         
                                        And if he would continue to give me grace,
                                         
                                        I intend to keep those promises.
                                         
                                        So I will be faithful in my preaching
                                         
                                        and Stuart in the anointing he's entrusted to me
                                         
                                        and I will not be afraid to preach the truth.
                                            Starting point is 00:50:50 
                                        Whether it fills up a room or clears it out,
                                         
                                        I will not be handcuffed by the approval of people.
                                         
                                        Come on.
                                         
                                        I'm not going to give an account to them.
                                         
                                        I'm going to give an account to the one who gave me a second chance.
                                         
                                        I'm going to give an account to the one who has poured out his spirit on 2819.
                                         
                                        That's right.
                                         
                                        That's the one I'm going to give an account to, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:51:11 
                                        I'm not going to try to protect a platform I did not build.
                                         
                                        Oh.
                                         
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        By trying to appease people that are not going to be the judge I stand before.
                                         
                                        I'm not going to do that.
                                         
                                        So I'm content to be misunderstood.
                                         
                                        I'm content to be persecuted.
                                         
                                        I'm content to get death threats.
                                            Starting point is 00:51:31 
                                        I'm content to be lied on.
                                         
                                        I'm content to be called a demon, a false prophet, all the things.
                                         
                                        I'm content to suffer all of that for the name of Christ.
                                         
                                        When in silent, I know, I know that I'm doing everything I can to be faithful to the one who gave me a second chance.
                                         
                                        even if people don't understand
                                         
                                        who I am, what I am,
                                         
                                        what I preach, or my movements,
                                         
                                        even if they don't understand that,
                                            Starting point is 00:52:02 
                                        I'm content to be faithful to the one
                                         
                                        that gave me a second chance.
                                         
                                        So yes, that's a long answer to say
                                         
                                        I have made two promises to God.
                                         
                                        That's the best answer.
                                         
                                        And I intend to keep them.
                                         
                                        Praise Jesus.
                                         
                                        If it cost me my life.
                                            Starting point is 00:52:16 
                                        Unreal. I can't believe the Lord showed you that this morning
                                         
                                        that we were going to ask that.
                                         
                                        Yeah, he did. He did.
                                         
                                        That's no lie.
                                         
                                        He did.
                                         
                                        I'm as sure as there's a God above,
                                         
                                        the Holy Spirit told me one of you two was going to ask me that question
                                         
                                        and I need to be prepared to testify.
                                            Starting point is 00:52:31 
                                        Wow, Lord.
                                         
                                        We wanted to ask, has there been a moment through all of this
                                         
                                        where you've been more afraid than you've been excited?
                                         
                                        And what did Jesus do with that fear?
                                         
                                        I've never been afraid of death threats
                                         
                                        and I've gotten those
                                         
                                        I've wore a vest
                                         
                                        on my podcast tour
                                            Starting point is 00:52:56 
                                        with my brother Tim
                                         
                                        I've never been afraid of people
                                         
                                        coming in my DMs
                                         
                                        you know
                                         
                                        saying you know
                                         
                                        they're gonna get me in all this other stuff
                                         
                                        I've never been afraid of opposition
                                         
                                        from false religions
                                            Starting point is 00:53:10 
                                        you know we have you know
                                         
                                        it's not unknown that there is a camp
                                         
                                        out there that really hates me and they try to show up
                                         
                                        at our gatherings and make a big
                                         
                                        display of themselves on Sundays it's like they
                                         
                                        have no platform without me, right?
                                         
                                        I think if you're really men and women of God,
                                         
                                        have your own platform without trying to tear somebody else down, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:53:28 
                                        Like, why do you have to show up at our church?
                                         
                                        You know, it's like you're trying to just get content, right?
                                         
                                        It's like, y'all don't even exist without, like,
                                         
                                        showing up at our church.
                                         
                                        Wait, that is so crazy.
                                         
                                        And I'm going to use that in the future for people who are, yeah.
                                         
                                        They have to use your platform to build their own.
                                         
                                        You know, it's like, if you're really of God, just do God's work.
                                            Starting point is 00:53:48 
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        Why you got to keep showing up at 2019, right?
                                         
                                        So stuff, I'm not afraid of that.
                                         
                                        I'm not afraid.
                                         
                                        I'm not afraid of threats and people showing.
                                         
                                        I'm not afraid of any of that stuff.
                                         
                                        I'm not afraid of men.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 00:54:05 
                                        The one time I have been afraid of God in all of this is moments when I have felt
                                         
                                        maybe like pride creep up into my heart.
                                         
                                        Or I feel like arrogance may have crept up into my heart.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        And I feel like, yeah, that's in there.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I feel that.
                                         
                                        Maybe I said or did something that was characteristic of being prideful or arrogant or thinking more highly of myself than the art.
                                            Starting point is 00:54:46 
                                        Or because of God's blessing in my life, my team, I probably work with the most dynamic group of human beings anywhere.
                                         
                                        I have a dynamic staff.
                                         
                                        When I think about God's favor on our church,
                                         
                                        the favor I experience in my personal life,
                                         
                                        my travels, the doors that have opened,
                                         
                                        the rooms I've sat in,
                                         
                                        the people have met, the handshakes,
                                         
                                        the relationships I have that I would never talk about on camera, right?
                                            Starting point is 00:55:20 
                                        When I take inventory of all those things,
                                         
                                        if you're not careful,
                                         
                                        those things can, they can almost,
                                         
                                        for a person who's not grounded,
                                         
                                        almost make you think that this is for you.
                                         
                                        And that Jesus has done all of that solely for you.
                                         
                                        And he's poured out all that favor for you.
                                         
                                        And all of that is for you.
                                            Starting point is 00:55:45 
                                        And then in a moment, self-reliance can emerge
                                         
                                        and pride can emerge and arrogance can emerge.
                                         
                                        And when that emerges in my heart every now and then,
                                         
                                        that is when I feel the most afraid.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Right?
                                         
                                        Not because of men, not because of threat.
                                         
                                        not because of people trying to show up with knives or guns
                                            Starting point is 00:56:03 
                                        or not because of false people trying to show up
                                         
                                        or not because I got to wear bulletproof vests on tour.
                                         
                                        Those things, though, I'm not afraid of men.
                                         
                                        What makes me more afraid is when things creep up in my heart
                                         
                                        that might separate me from God.
                                         
                                        That's when I'm most afraid.
                                         
                                        That's when I'm most afraid,
                                         
                                        and that's when I have to go back to the prayer room
                                            Starting point is 00:56:21 
                                        and hang myself on the cross again
                                         
                                        and say, God, crucify this in me again
                                         
                                        and take this out of me again.
                                         
                                        And that's when I have to remind myself that all of this that has happened in my life over the last couple years,
                                         
                                        Jesus has done this for himself.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I'm just, I just get to steward.
                                         
                                        I just get to be a part.
                                            Starting point is 00:56:42 
                                        But he's done the platform he's given me, he's done that for himself, that his name could be proclaimed.
                                         
                                        What he's done in our church, he's done that for himself.
                                         
                                        That souls can be saved and harvested.
                                         
                                        What he's, what he's done in my life, he's done that for himself, not for me.
                                         
                                        I am the donkey that Jesus is riding on.
                                         
                                        Like, you remember, I took my church through Matthew for, for two.
                                         
                                        three years. Yeah. Three years. And in the end of Matthew, there is that scene when Jesus is riding in
                                         
                                        to Jerusalem on the donkey, fulfilling biblical prophecy. And the scripture tells us the people are
                                            Starting point is 00:57:11 
                                        screaming Hosanna and they're laying branches on the floor as he's riding into Jerusalem, right?
                                         
                                        Now, could you imagine if that donkey could talk? So you're like, wow, they're laying branches
                                         
                                        on the floor for me. They're screaming Hosanna for me. Like, imagine,
                                         
                                        imagine if that donkey could talk, right, and we could hear him in his prideful state saying,
                                         
                                        wow, look at all these people throwing branches on the floor for me.
                                         
                                        Look at how they're shouting Hosanna for me, right?
                                         
                                        Look at how they are hailing and giving me praise for me and forgetting that the person that they're talking to,
                                         
                                        the person that they're throwing the branches for is not you.
                                            Starting point is 00:57:51 
                                        It's for the person on top of you, right?
                                         
                                        And it's the same thing for all of us, right?
                                         
                                        We are just the donkeys that Jesus is riding on, right?
                                         
                                        And so I tell like some of the young men around me, like even our worship leader, his name is Trey.
                                         
                                        You know, he wrote a song right now.
                                         
                                        Our camp wrote a song.
                                         
                                        He wrote a song and the team came around him and added pieces to the song.
                                         
                                        Call for Christ alone.
                                            Starting point is 00:58:19 
                                        That has gone out to the whole world.
                                         
                                        Unreal.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        And he and I was having a private conversation.
                                         
                                        And I said to him, I said to him, I said to him, I said to him, I said to him, and let's
                                         
                                        I said, listen, man, I'm going to come in and talk to your team about the temptation for pride and arrogance and all this other stuff.
                                         
                                        But I said to him in private first, your influence is going to grow and the influence of the team is going to grow on everything.
                                         
                                        And I told him, eat the fruit.
                                            Starting point is 00:58:44 
                                        Stay away from the glory.
                                         
                                        When God blesses 2819 worship and if he blesses the songs that we write, remember God is not doing that for you.
                                         
                                        He's doing that for him.
                                         
                                        And we just get to be a part of that.
                                         
                                        as stewards, right?
                                         
                                        Because if you really want to,
                                         
                                        he could just strip us off this platform right now, right?
                                         
                                        And so, and so, again, that is a long answer to the question.
                                            Starting point is 00:59:12 
                                        When I'm most afraid is not because of men.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        When I'm most afraid is when I feel like things have crept up in my heart.
                                         
                                        That is an insult to God and an insult to the cross of Christ.
                                         
                                        When those things creep up in my heart, that's when I'm most afraid, right?
                                         
                                        And that's why, you know, like there's a, I made an announcement about my very first book that's coming out in October of this year called contend.
                                         
                                        And there's a chapter in that book when I talk about contending inwardly on the inside, right?
                                         
                                        I wrote the book based on a message that I preached in London about Jude.
                                            Starting point is 00:59:52 
                                        I preached a message in London when we did our 2019 crusade in London.
                                         
                                        I preached a message from the letter of Jude.
                                         
                                        And the book is around that message from Jude.
                                         
                                        And there's a chapter in the book that talks about contending on the inside.
                                         
                                        And it's for everybody who is struggling on inside with, like, shame, depression, regret, feelings of betrayal, loss, all the things that come up on the inside that choke the faith out of us.
                                         
                                        Whereas like you're going to church
                                         
                                        but you feel dead on the inside.
                                         
                                        You're coming around brothers and sisters
                                            Starting point is 01:00:34 
                                        but you feel dead on the inside.
                                         
                                        You're trying to open your Bible
                                         
                                        but you don't even feel like reading.
                                         
                                        You want to pray but you feel like God is not going to listen to me
                                         
                                        and I pray.
                                         
                                        We all know what this feels like when you feel like
                                         
                                        or there's some person who feels like
                                         
                                        God is disappointed with me right now
                                            Starting point is 01:00:48 
                                        or he's angry with me right now
                                         
                                        or I've really messed up.
                                         
                                        God can't use me.
                                         
                                        And we know what it is to wrestle with those
                                         
                                        feelings on the inside. So there's a whole chapter I write in a book about contending for the faith
                                         
                                        on the inside, right? And so when I'm talking to you right now about the thing I fear most,
                                         
                                        that's me contending on the inside. That's me fighting for the faith on the inside against that
                                         
                                        which separates me from God. Pride, arrogance, thinking this is all about me, self-exaltation,
                                            Starting point is 01:01:21 
                                        all those things, not only do they separate us from God, but they give him no incentive to keep pouring,
                                         
                                        our favor. So as God look at you, so, oh, you think this is about you. All right. Let me turn off the
                                         
                                        force of the favor long enough to show you that you cannot do any of this in your own strength.
                                         
                                        This is my doing, right? So look at your podcast. Like you have a global podcast. You ladies,
                                         
                                        you travel the country, you travel the world, teaching, preaching, laying hands, believe in God
                                         
                                        for healing, right? You have over a million people following you on your platform. Over a million
                                         
                                        people. That's a massive platform.
                                         
                                        Less than 1% of all
                                            Starting point is 01:01:59 
                                        Instagram followers who ever have a million people
                                         
                                        follow them on a program. Less than
                                         
                                        1%. I think it's like 1.4,
                                         
                                        maybe less than 2%. Right.
                                         
                                        What's sitting on your life right now
                                         
                                        like, y'all are my sisters.
                                         
                                        Y'all know I love y'all, right?
                                         
                                        What's sitting on your lives right now is
                                            Starting point is 01:02:17 
                                        divine favor, right?
                                         
                                        Whether people
                                         
                                        don't understand
                                         
                                        or why these two girls,
                                         
                                        Why them?
                                         
                                        I saw somebody one time try to
                                         
                                        try to persec you all.
                                         
                                        So, oh, girls go on Bible.
                                            Starting point is 01:02:30 
                                        Like, they, they, they took a name
                                         
                                        that was like a name from like something sexual
                                         
                                        and tried to make it into something godly
                                         
                                        and they try to persecute you.
                                         
                                        I'm looking at this like,
                                         
                                        and I was about to get in the comments.
                                         
                                        I'm from the street.
                                         
                                        We need.
                                            Starting point is 01:02:45 
                                        Listen, I'm from, I'm from the street.
                                         
                                        And so I've been telling my team
                                         
                                        there's a part of me that's still not like,
                                         
                                        fully sanctified.
                                         
                                        Like, the Lord is still working.
                                         
                                        So I was, I was, I read some.
                                         
                                        try to say something about y'all about why you hijack like a pornography name and try to make it into a
                                         
                                        and I was about to I was about to get in the comments and just correct the ignorant person let me say it like
                                            Starting point is 01:03:06 
                                        that right I was about to let them have it on your behalf right but then I think about okay
                                         
                                        they're mocking something that God's hand is on and he's poured out his favor on and it's been a
                                         
                                        blessing to the whole generation right it is it is undeniable that God's favor is on your lives
                                         
                                        I know that God's favor is on my life.
                                         
                                        But when we start thinking it's about us,
                                         
                                        there's nothing for him to just switch that off just a little bit.
                                         
                                        Oh, my gosh.
                                         
                                        And say, okay, let's see how y'all can do this in your own strength
                                            Starting point is 01:03:45 
                                        without my favor.
                                         
                                        Try that for three months and see how well you do, right?
                                         
                                        And so...
                                         
                                        It's so true.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        That's what I'm afraid of most.
                                         
                                        those things that
                                         
                                        that creep up in me that
                                            Starting point is 01:04:00 
                                        are insult to the cross.
                                         
                                        We literally just had an episode
                                         
                                        where we talked about something that's been on my heart
                                         
                                        so much over the last few months.
                                         
                                        I think like
                                         
                                        tell me your opinion on this, but I think
                                         
                                        like especially when you come from the world
                                         
                                        and then you get saved and you adopt
                                            Starting point is 01:04:18 
                                        all of this like beautiful Christian language
                                         
                                        where you're, it's so easy to emotional
                                         
                                        and spiritually bypass
                                         
                                        and what's really going on underneath
                                         
                                        and we like put on this Christian mask
                                         
                                        where we speak Christian knees and it's just like
                                         
                                        it's this thing that we all do
                                         
                                        most of us do like I will admit
                                            Starting point is 01:04:35 
                                        I spent a few years like
                                         
                                        obtaining all this knowledge and thinking
                                         
                                        that I'm this person when really
                                         
                                        there was so much going on underneath
                                         
                                        that I was able to just completely
                                         
                                        avoid because I got to live
                                         
                                        this Christian life and have this
                                         
                                        Christian mask and the
                                            Starting point is 01:04:51 
                                        second your life bottoms out
                                         
                                        the second you hit
                                         
                                        a bump in the road and the mask can't cover anymore.
                                         
                                        It can't cover what's really going on underneath.
                                         
                                        I realized, I think the last few months of my life,
                                         
                                        I've been made so aware of like this performative Christianity
                                         
                                        where we say the right, like we say the right things.
                                         
                                        And like it is encouraging at times.
                                            Starting point is 01:05:13 
                                        Biblical truth is important.
                                         
                                        And there are like these amazing encouraging things that you can say.
                                         
                                        But when we use that as a cover and a mask,
                                         
                                        rather than like really addressing
                                         
                                        what's going on underneath.
                                         
                                        I've realized, like, this external picture
                                         
                                        that we put out of what we want people to see,
                                         
                                        that's not life with Jesus.
                                            Starting point is 01:05:34 
                                        No, it's not.
                                         
                                        Life with Jesus is everything you just talked about.
                                         
                                        Those everyday woe was me moments
                                         
                                        where you're just made so aware
                                         
                                        of how much you missed the mark,
                                         
                                        how far you are from really being like the sun.
                                         
                                        And, like, that's what the Christian life is.
                                         
                                        It's all about those moments,
                                            Starting point is 01:05:51 
                                        everything you just talked about.
                                         
                                        You know what's so powerful about that.
                                         
                                        Can we be honest?
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Just completely transparent.
                                         
                                        Yeah, please.
                                         
                                        So before this podcast started, when you and I were on the couch over there,
                                         
                                        and, you know, we would just had a moment for you to just cry and be vulnerable, right?
                                            Starting point is 01:06:06 
                                        And you asked your hand, you had like, how are you really doing in this particular area?
                                         
                                        And you just told me, right?
                                         
                                        I think about that because you mentioned that now on the podcast when you said, you know,
                                         
                                        you're going through a very difficult season.
                                         
                                        Do you all remember when the Apostle Paul said,
                                         
                                        You know, I boast all the more in my weaknesses,
                                         
                                        that the power of Christ can be displayed in me, right?
                                         
                                        Here's a man who was educated, well-off financially, well-connected, famous.
                                            Starting point is 01:06:52 
                                        You wrote two-thirds of the New Testament.
                                         
                                        He has divine revelation not given to any other human being.
                                         
                                        I mean, if somebody had a right to boast,
                                         
                                        it would have been that man, or to keep a veneer of perfection,
                                         
                                        like, oh, it would have been that man.
                                         
                                        But that man writes, yet I boast all the more in my weaknesses,
                                         
                                        the power of Christ may be displayed in me.
                                         
                                        I glory in my sufferings.
                                            Starting point is 01:07:22 
                                        That the power of Christ may be displayed in me.
                                         
                                        You would think, like, man, Paul, you're the great apostle Paul.
                                         
                                        You was trained at the feet of Gamalil.
                                         
                                        You were a Pharisee of Pharisees, a Jew of Jews, right?
                                         
                                        Like, man, you, Paul would be that man
                                         
                                        but such a huge first century platform
                                         
                                        to keep a veneer going, keep a mask.
                                         
                                        But every time we bump into one of his letters,
                                            Starting point is 01:07:47 
                                        we see him talking about him being a jar
                                         
                                        with issues on the inside.
                                         
                                        We bump into him in the back half of Roman 7,
                                         
                                        and he's talking about his wrestle with sin.
                                         
                                        The thing I want to do, I don't do.
                                         
                                        And what I don't want to do, I do.
                                         
                                        We bump into him in Corinthians,
                                         
                                        talking about his persecutions and his sufferings
                                            Starting point is 01:08:08 
                                        and even being pushed to the point of despair.
                                         
                                        And we keep bumping to him in these letters
                                         
                                        where he's just talking about his issues.
                                         
                                        We bump into him when he's in the book of Acts
                                         
                                        when he's shipwreck at sea for almost a year.
                                         
                                        We keep just bumping into a man
                                         
                                        that has every reason to keep a mask on,
                                         
                                        but life would not allow that for him.
                                            Starting point is 01:08:27 
                                        Not only did life not allow that for him,
                                         
                                        his writings did not allow that for him.
                                         
                                        He tells us a lot about his sufferings.
                                         
                                        He did not.
                                         
                                        I keep a veneer.
                                         
                                        And I just pray we learn something from the Apostle Paul, right?
                                         
                                        I don't know anyone personally that has a platform like Paul.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 01:08:45 
                                        I don't know anyone personally that had revelation like Paul.
                                         
                                        And I don't know anyone person that has written anything like Paul.
                                         
                                        Like I don't have a seminary degree, but I read a lot of theological books.
                                         
                                        I'm a ghetto theologian, right?
                                         
                                        Like I'm a hood theologian, right?
                                         
                                        Like I don't have a seminary degree.
                                         
                                        I want one.
                                         
                                        I went to seminary and I had.
                                            Starting point is 01:09:05 
                                        to drop out the first semester because of family.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I would like to go back.
                                         
                                        Totally.
                                         
                                        I would like to go back.
                                         
                                        Listen.
                                         
                                        I would.
                                         
                                        Yeah, I pray for me.
                                            Starting point is 01:09:14 
                                        I would like to go back, right?
                                         
                                        I'm a ghetto theologian.
                                         
                                        But when you think about probably the most robust theological document ever recorded in history
                                         
                                        did not come from a seminary school, came from Paul when he wrote the book of Romans to a church
                                         
                                        he had not planted or visited.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        When you think about a man that has that kind of platform, revelation, writing skills,
                                            Starting point is 01:09:35 
                                        man, if there's anybody that could have kept a veneer of like, man, I got this, I'm perfect.
                                         
                                        Like, it could have been that due Paul, but no, we don't see that in him.
                                         
                                        Just see a man that keeps talking about his problems and his issues and his sufferings in a trial.
                                         
                                        And although he does not mention it, right, although he does not tell us in details,
                                         
                                        he does even confess his wrestle with sin.
                                         
                                        Like the man confess his own wrestle with sin.
                                         
                                        but sin.
                                         
                                        I think we just read past that so fast.
                                            Starting point is 01:10:08 
                                        The thing I don't want to do,
                                         
                                        I do.
                                         
                                        What I should be doing,
                                         
                                        I don't do.
                                         
                                        He talks about this wrestle with sin
                                         
                                        and who's going to deliver me.
                                         
                                        Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ.
                                         
                                        And so I just think
                                            Starting point is 01:10:24 
                                        the veneer is fake perfection
                                         
                                        in this life
                                         
                                        trying to look perfect.
                                         
                                        That's fake.
                                         
                                        Christian life is suffering, trials, tribulation, hardships.
                                         
                                        And I think there is even a strength in letting people see a little bit of vulnerability
                                         
                                        and letting them know that I'm going through something too.
                                         
                                        And I can still be faithful to Jesus while I'm going through it.
                                            Starting point is 01:10:49 
                                        I think that shows a measure of strength and a false from the air of perfection.
                                         
                                        You feel what I'm saying?
                                         
                                        Yeah, 100%.
                                         
                                        What you said earlier was everything of, like, I can preach that the Lord is good even when my situation is in.
                                         
                                        I can preach that he's good even when I feel like he's not.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Because it's not about my feelings.
                                         
                                        I'm just,
                                            Starting point is 01:11:09 
                                        you spoke to something a second ago about persecution and that little bit of, you know,
                                         
                                        unsanctified, whatever in you that wants to say something back at times.
                                         
                                        Pop off.
                                         
                                        You don't pop off all the time.
                                         
                                        I'm from Boston.
                                         
                                        You know how to pop off, Ari.
                                         
                                        No, I want to.
                                         
                                        Ari from the hood.
                                            Starting point is 01:11:30 
                                        Listen, every time you're saying you're getting death threats, I'm like.
                                         
                                        Ari's from Boston.
                                         
                                        She's from the hood.
                                         
                                        Do you know about the Boston streets.
                                         
                                        I sure do.
                                         
                                        Oh, she does.
                                         
                                        Murder pan.
                                         
                                        Yeah, it's Madapan.
                                            Starting point is 01:11:43 
                                        Matapan, murder pan.
                                         
                                        Murder pan.
                                         
                                        Yeah, exactly.
                                         
                                        So I, and I want to read this the way that it's written.
                                         
                                        Criticism in a season like this is rarely only disagreement, right?
                                         
                                        It's often spiritual.
                                         
                                        How do you tell the difference between an attack that you should ignore?
                                         
                                        a wound that needs healing
                                            Starting point is 01:12:04 
                                        and a correction the spirit is actually using.
                                         
                                        So I think no one is above critique.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        No one.
                                         
                                        No one alive
                                         
                                        except for Christ himself.
                                         
                                        No one is above critique.
                                            Starting point is 01:12:22 
                                        And yet to avoid critique is to do nothing.
                                         
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        And to not be seen and not be heard.
                                         
                                        So if you're living faithfully for Christ,
                                         
                                        it could be a high school student, a single mom, a business professional, an athlete.
                                         
                                        I have relationship with athletes who are trying to live faithful for Christ in the NBA,
                                         
                                        in the NFL, whatever the case may be.
                                         
                                        I have relationships with people in the entertainment industry who have come to faith
                                            Starting point is 01:12:49 
                                        and trying to live faithful for Christ in a very dark industry.
                                         
                                        And so, the scriptedity, no one who tries to live for Christ,
                                         
                                        they're not going to escape this life without some measure of critique and persecution.
                                         
                                        It's not going to happen.
                                         
                                        Jesus said, if they hated me, they will hate you too.
                                         
                                        If they call me a devil, they will call you a devil too.
                                         
                                        So let's just first establish there is no being faithful to Christ without critique and persecution.
                                         
                                        Okay, good.
                                            Starting point is 01:13:14 
                                        But when we hear it, we have to have enough humility and discernment to separate them into categories.
                                         
                                        So there are critiques that are valid.
                                         
                                        There is validity in those critiques.
                                         
                                        And if we are humble, we listen to them.
                                         
                                        we internalize them
                                         
                                        we take them to prayer
                                         
                                        and we try to use them to become
                                         
                                        better men and better women
                                            Starting point is 01:13:37 
                                        to shape our character
                                         
                                        there is critique that I think is righteous
                                         
                                        and we should listen to
                                         
                                        I have been critiqued about things
                                         
                                        I said you know what
                                         
                                        this person is right
                                         
                                        and I need to take this to Jesus
                                         
                                        and prayer and I need to work this into my life
                                            Starting point is 01:13:50 
                                        and I need to change in this area
                                         
                                        so there are some critiques I do listen to
                                         
                                        right I may not respond in the comments
                                         
                                        but I may have listened like you know what this person is right
                                         
                                        right
                                         
                                        There is a type of critique that is born out of the fallen, broken nature of other human beings, jealousy.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Covetousness.
                                            Starting point is 01:14:10 
                                        Mm-hmm.
                                         
                                        Right?
                                         
                                        People jealous of your platform.
                                         
                                        Covetous of your platform.
                                         
                                        They want to be in your seat, but they're not.
                                         
                                        So the only way they can feel good about themselves is to tear you down so they could prop themselves up.
                                         
                                        So there's a type of critique that's born out of the fallen nature, man.
                                         
                                        And it's really not critique.
                                            Starting point is 01:14:28 
                                        It's critique that hides behind the...
                                         
                                        guise of critique, but it's really the sin of slander. It's the sin of slander that hides behind the
                                         
                                        guise of critique. We call it righteous critique, but it's really the sin of slander. And that is
                                         
                                        unholy before the Lord. That is ungodly, right? And then there is a type of critique that I think
                                         
                                        is just highly satanic in which persecutions and things are being said about servants of God.
                                         
                                        that are a direct influence of Satan himself
                                         
                                        using an unsaved mouth to speak lies about servants of God
                                         
                                        in an attempt to diminish that person's credibility
                                            Starting point is 01:15:13 
                                        in the world so that they would not listen to that person.
                                         
                                        So we even see this in the life of Jesus.
                                         
                                        When the Lord is being persecuted by the Pharisees,
                                         
                                        he calls them sons of Satan.
                                         
                                        What were they doing?
                                         
                                        They were jealous, the scripture tells us,
                                         
                                        They were jealous of him.
                                         
                                        And Jesus calls him Son of Satan.
                                            Starting point is 01:15:33 
                                        So at least they fit two of those narratives.
                                         
                                        There's jealousy in their heart
                                         
                                        because his ministry is outshining theirs in their mind.
                                         
                                        So there's jealousy in their hearts
                                         
                                        so they're continuously to antagonize him with their mouths.
                                         
                                        But they're also sons of the devil.
                                         
                                        So Satan is working through them.
                                         
                                        Watch, an attempt to discredit the ministry of Christ
                                            Starting point is 01:15:54 
                                        so that less people will stop listening to Christ.
                                         
                                        Right?
                                         
                                        And this is why Jesus said to the Pharisees
                                         
                                        that they shut the doors of the kingdom
                                         
                                        in people's faces.
                                         
                                        Wow.
                                         
                                        And the interpretation of that text is that because of their
                                         
                                        constant maligning of his ministry,
                                            Starting point is 01:16:14 
                                        they're causing people to turn away from listening to Jesus
                                         
                                        shutting the doors of the kingdom.
                                         
                                        The same thing is happening right now.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        There are people that will say evil things about you
                                         
                                        and evil things about me
                                         
                                        that is completely satanic.
                                         
                                        And what the devil's doing is hijacking.
                                            Starting point is 01:16:28 
                                        is hijacking an unsaved mouth
                                         
                                        to speak evil about Ari,
                                         
                                        evil about Angie, evil about Philip,
                                         
                                        and then unsuspecting people
                                         
                                        listen to that.
                                         
                                        They read that.
                                         
                                        They're watching a YouTube video.
                                         
                                        They're reading a post.
                                            Starting point is 01:16:41 
                                        Oh, Angie's like this.
                                         
                                        Ari's like this.
                                         
                                        Philip is like this, right?
                                         
                                        He's a demon.
                                         
                                        He's a devil.
                                         
                                        She's a this.
                                         
                                        And the unsuspecting person
                                         
                                        who don't have the sermon
                                            Starting point is 01:16:49 
                                        will listen to that
                                         
                                        because it's well packaged.
                                         
                                        And you know what they do?
                                         
                                        I'm not watching their podcast no more.
                                         
                                        Mm-hmm.
                                         
                                        I'm not streaming 29.
                                         
                                        I'm not turning no more.
                                         
                                        I'm not turning no more.
                                            Starting point is 01:17:01 
                                        And because the wrong voice got into their ears,
                                         
                                        into their heart,
                                         
                                        they're deceived by the devil,
                                         
                                        they turn away from the voice that God has raised up,
                                         
                                        and then the doors of the kingdom get shut in their face.
                                         
                                        They go away into lies and delusions,
                                         
                                        distant from biblical truth.
                                         
                                        And that is what the devil's doing right now.
                                            Starting point is 01:17:23 
                                        There are voices that God has raised up in these last days,
                                         
                                        like yours,
                                         
                                        like yours raised up in the last days.
                                         
                                        And the enemy would try to work through jealous women,
                                         
                                        jealous men,
                                         
                                        pawns of the devil,
                                         
                                        to say,
                                         
                                        X about Angie,
                                            Starting point is 01:17:43 
                                        X about Ari,
                                         
                                        X about Philip,
                                         
                                        X about whoever,
                                         
                                        just trying to pick off
                                         
                                        as many people as possible
                                         
                                        from listening,
                                         
                                        right,
                                         
                                        from listening,
                                            Starting point is 01:17:55 
                                        so that they wander into now,
                                         
                                        false doctrines,
                                         
                                        they start listening to people that God did not raise up.
                                         
                                        It's happening right now in America,
                                         
                                        especially in our country.
                                         
                                        And it is worse because of the proliferation of social media
                                         
                                        has given a platform to fools
                                         
                                        and a platform to demonic voices.
                                            Starting point is 01:18:12 
                                        Can you imagine we live in an era
                                         
                                        where people call real men and women of God false prophets?
                                         
                                        Maybe because of a mistake they made on a platform
                                         
                                        or something you don't agree about this person that false prophets.
                                         
                                        I've heard, I saw somebody call me, I said,
                                         
                                        I'm full of a demon.
                                         
                                        Yeah, see, that's the stuff that makes it unscientified part of me come out.
                                         
                                        Come on.
                                            Starting point is 01:18:32 
                                        Come on, Ann.
                                         
                                        Like, I suppose somebody, somebody call me a demon.
                                         
                                        That is?
                                         
                                        Give me their number.
                                         
                                        I'll be very numb.
                                         
                                        A demon, this is crazy.
                                         
                                        That's, this is wild.
                                         
                                        But you know what?
                                            Starting point is 01:18:45 
                                        They call Jesus a demon.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Oh, yeah.
                                         
                                        They said, oh, these miracles he do, he does that by the power of Satan.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        So you think that's the God in the body.
                                         
                                        Men call them a false prophet and a demon.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 01:19:00 
                                        What chance do we have?
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        We just got to be faithful in the midst of all that nest and pray for people to have more discernment.
                                         
                                        Well, because I was going to ask you, the Bible says, do not judge for you won't be judged, but then it says judge, judge righteously.
                                         
                                        And so I want to know how you balance that in your sermons and in everyday life with loved ones, because that's something that I even struggled with.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I think for me, when the scripture says, do not judge lest you be judged.
                                         
                                        is meaning we should not condemn men unjustly, condemn men, right?
                                            Starting point is 01:19:32 
                                        And we have to make sure that we remember that we, too, ourselves, have a sinful nature.
                                         
                                        So that's why he talks about the toothpick that you've seen somebody else's eye,
                                         
                                        but you don't see the telephone pole sticking out your own eye.
                                         
                                        So there has to be...
                                         
                                        What version is that?
                                         
                                        That's the P-A-M version.
                                         
                                        Is it a toothpick?
                                         
                                        That's the P-A-M version.
                                            Starting point is 01:19:51 
                                        That's a good version.
                                         
                                        That's the P-A-M version.
                                         
                                        We see the toothpick in everybody else's eye,
                                         
                                        but we don't see the telephone pole sticking out our own eye.
                                         
                                        So it's in that context, Jesus says, do not judge.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        That is, let's remember when we are accessing,
                                            Starting point is 01:20:08 
                                        obviously we are assessing other people.
                                         
                                        Let's remember that we two are sinful creatures.
                                         
                                        But there is a righteous judgment in which we're speaking out
                                         
                                        against evil and things that are front to the gospel
                                         
                                        and things that are front to the kingdom.
                                         
                                        And I think those are righteous judgments.
                                         
                                        And I think we have to speak and things like that.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 01:20:27 
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        So there's a difference.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I, we are really big on accountability.
                                         
                                        Accountability is huge.
                                         
                                        I want to ask you, who are the people who can still tell you no?
                                         
                                        Do you have any people in your life who can still tell you no?
                                         
                                        Lena.
                                            Starting point is 01:20:48 
                                        Lena, huh?
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        in this order, God.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Lena.
                                         
                                        Come on.
                                            Starting point is 01:21:00 
                                        God.
                                         
                                        Lena.
                                         
                                        You're not going to believe this next one, but my children.
                                         
                                        Love.
                                         
                                        My children, they rebuke me.
                                         
                                        My children rebuke me.
                                         
                                        My children.
                                         
                                        The elders in our church.
                                            Starting point is 01:21:16 
                                        My staff.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And my mom.
                                         
                                        and family members who I know have my best interests at heart.
                                         
                                        And brothers, I have brothers in my life, lateral relationships, men of God,
                                         
                                        who I know have my best interests at heart.
                                         
                                        They can tell me no.
                                         
                                        They can say, don't go there.
                                            Starting point is 01:21:36 
                                        They can say pray about that.
                                         
                                        They can say, you shouldn't have said that from the pulpit.
                                         
                                        They can say you should apologize.
                                         
                                        That category of people, I just said, they can tell me no.
                                         
                                        They can rebuke me, and I will listen.
                                         
                                        What do you do with...
                                         
                                        That was a good one.
                                         
                                        Nobody's ever asked me that before.
                                            Starting point is 01:21:54 
                                        Do you...
                                         
                                        Can I say...
                                         
                                        And Lena would be the first person
                                         
                                        and tell me no.
                                         
                                        My wife is not impressed with me at all.
                                         
                                        See, I love that.
                                         
                                        She's not impressed with me.
                                         
                                        She's not impressed with...
                                            Starting point is 01:22:04 
                                        She's not impressed with...
                                         
                                        I know.
                                         
                                        She's not impressed with no famous person.
                                         
                                        Lena's the most unimpressed person
                                         
                                        with all this stuff.
                                         
                                        She's not impressed with none of that.
                                         
                                        Lena wasn't even following me
                                         
                                        on my own podcast.
                                            Starting point is 01:22:15 
                                        I love her.
                                         
                                        Somebody on our staff
                                         
                                        had to say,
                                         
                                        You know, hey, Ms. Lena, you're not even following your husband.
                                         
                                        Like, you should follow his podcast.
                                         
                                        Like, she's not impressed with anything.
                                         
                                        So good.
                                         
                                        She's just so strong.
                                            Starting point is 01:22:25 
                                        She's strong.
                                         
                                        She's pure.
                                         
                                        She's wise.
                                         
                                        She's godly.
                                         
                                        She's holy.
                                         
                                        She's unimpressed.
                                         
                                        She's gorgeous.
                                         
                                        She is beautiful.
                                            Starting point is 01:22:34 
                                        She just keeps me grounded.
                                         
                                        Yeah, yeah, yeah.
                                         
                                        How do you, I just have a question.
                                         
                                        Shout out, Lena.
                                         
                                        Shout out, Lena.
                                         
                                        Yeah, yeah, yeah.
                                         
                                        There's a huge thing, probably in America mostly, right?
                                         
                                        Like you go, even in like other denominations, like you look at like Greek Orthodox or Catholicism, like the man of God famous preacher, it's not really a thing.
                                            Starting point is 01:22:58 
                                        It's typically in like non-denominational Protestant streams where you see like this man of God complex where a man of God they become the pinnacle.
                                         
                                        And at times in many people's eyes like can replace Jesus.
                                         
                                        How do you in your life, is this a conversation?
                                         
                                        Is this a thought for you of moving away from the man of God complex of like...
                                         
                                        I've struggled with that because, like, it's not uncommon that there are a lot of people who attack my name of my ministry and use the word idolize around my name.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        So you all people idolize you.
                                         
                                        And it always bothers me when I hear that.
                                            Starting point is 01:23:45 
                                        I hate to hear that.
                                         
                                        Right.
                                         
                                        And it makes me sick.
                                         
                                        in my heart. And there was a time when I just was, I was in denial. I was saying, no, that,
                                         
                                        that's not true. And, but I actually met a sister in the faith who said she had idolized me.
                                         
                                        And, and I was shocked when she said that. And I, from that day, would pray aggressively.
                                         
                                        that if there is any form of idolization,
                                         
                                        it would become just admiration.
                                            Starting point is 01:24:29 
                                        I think there is admiration that some people
                                         
                                        wrongly mistake as idolization.
                                         
                                        And some people just use the word idolize
                                         
                                        just to discredit my ministry.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        But where it is maybe legitimate,
                                         
                                        what I've tried to do is I always pray
                                         
                                        that God would keep me on the ground
                                            Starting point is 01:24:51 
                                        in my heart, he would keep me humble
                                         
                                        and that in my proclamation,
                                         
                                        my life, I would do everything I can to exalt
                                         
                                        the person of Christ.
                                         
                                        So if you listen to me, preach,
                                         
                                        you hear me say things a lot like I encourage
                                         
                                        people to read the scriptures for themselves.
                                         
                                        So they're not just dependent on my sermon.
                                            Starting point is 01:25:09 
                                        I want them to go read the Bible for themselves.
                                         
                                        I would do everything I can
                                         
                                        to make Christ the center of all of my proclamation
                                         
                                        and not myself.
                                         
                                        Like there's people no studio right now,
                                         
                                        travel with me, they'll tell you, like, if I'm walking off a platform, I finish proclaiming,
                                         
                                        I walk straight off a platform, and I try to leave that building right away. I don't hang out.
                                         
                                        Wow. You know, for people to laud praise on me. I'm off the platform and I'm gone. I'm in the van.
                                            Starting point is 01:25:37 
                                        I'm out of there. So I try to do everything I can to just stay away from glory. Glory.
                                         
                                        Yeah. And I would say, too, your vulnerability and your honesty about your brokenness and your flaws and
                                         
                                        your weaknesses. Like, I feel like every time you get on the platform, you're like, you,
                                         
                                        you begin with your own frailty and weakness. And I just feel like that's probably what
                                         
                                        breaks the idolization too, right? I would hope so. Yeah. Because I am frail. Yeah. And I am weak.
                                         
                                        And what people don't see is before I walk up on a platform, I'm behind that blacker. And,
                                         
                                        man, my head is, is on the stairs. And I'm asking God for strength before I walk out there.
                                         
                                        I still, every time I go to preach,
                                            Starting point is 01:26:20 
                                        I still feel weak.
                                         
                                        I still feel sometimes insecure.
                                         
                                        I still feel ill-equipped.
                                         
                                        I'm not, man, I...
                                         
                                        So comforting to hear.
                                         
                                        I am...
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        I don't have a cape.
                                            Starting point is 01:26:38 
                                        I am a very normal...
                                         
                                        I am a dude from the street that God saved
                                         
                                        and just chose to use.
                                         
                                        Who's still trying to figure it out.
                                         
                                        Right?
                                         
                                        I don't have a...
                                         
                                        cape. I don't have a cape. I'm just a dude from the street that God saved who's just trying
                                         
                                        his best to be faithful and I'm still trying to figure it out. Right. I don't have all the answers.
                                            Starting point is 01:27:04 
                                        I don't have it figured out. Right. And so I just do my best to try to exalt the person of
                                         
                                        Christ so that I am not the person that is exalted. Right. And I don't know what else I can do.
                                         
                                        but do my best to exalt the person of Christ.
                                         
                                        I want you to speak about the men.
                                         
                                        And I want to say this in such a way where I don't offend men.
                                         
                                        But I'm seeing so many women struggle right now with men and finding a partner and someone that is strong, a strong man of God that can lead, but also that is tender.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And so can you just speak to the men that on how to be strong and tender in a world where it emasculates masculinity?
                                            Starting point is 01:28:05 
                                        I think this is one of the biggest issues of our generation.
                                         
                                        And I think it's a strategic plan of the enemy to rob men of biblical masculinity and to just remove men from the lives.
                                         
                                        of children and forms, homes and family.
                                         
                                        I think it is strategic of the enemy.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        When I was a school teacher, I taught middle school
                                         
                                        for about four years, maybe about 75% to 80% of the students
                                         
                                        lived in homes without their fathers.
                                            Starting point is 01:28:51 
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        And as I began to study these psychological damage of that,
                                         
                                        there was this correlation between the absenteeism of fathers and men.
                                         
                                        and a lot of human brokenness in adults.
                                         
                                        And I think that's strategic.
                                         
                                        And so I want to say I think a lot of it is spiritual warfare against men.
                                         
                                        And there's a lot of men right now who are suffering,
                                         
                                        who are going through our silent sufferers and doing everything they can,
                                            Starting point is 01:29:21 
                                        trying to be husbands, trying to be good fathers
                                         
                                        and there are men out there who are just struggling and don't know what to do.
                                         
                                        I want to say at the very top that I think a lot of it
                                         
                                        is a systematic spiritual attack against men
                                         
                                        and to ruin the biblical masculinity of man.
                                         
                                        So I think it is spiritual.
                                         
                                        That's number one.
                                         
                                        Number two, I think we have to create safe spaces
                                            Starting point is 01:29:44 
                                        for men to confess and to be honest
                                         
                                        about what they're struggling with
                                         
                                        without them feeling like they're going to be judged
                                         
                                        or condemned or persecuted.
                                         
                                        So men have to have community
                                         
                                        where they can be their authentic selves
                                         
                                        and find voices that would speak
                                         
                                        life into them and speak to the person that God has called them to be.
                                            Starting point is 01:30:06 
                                        So that's number two.
                                         
                                        And then the third thing, I think men has to be rebuked, right?
                                         
                                        I think we have the first.
                                         
                                        Number one, notice, I think it's spiritual attack.
                                         
                                        Number two, there has to be a comfort for men who are hurting and suffering.
                                         
                                        But number three, there has to be a rebuke for men that just don't want to take accountability
                                         
                                        and responsibility.
                                         
                                        That's great.
                                            Starting point is 01:30:28 
                                        We have to be challenged.
                                         
                                        We have to be confronted.
                                         
                                        We have to be rebuked.
                                         
                                        We have to be encouraged to stop being boys,
                                         
                                        care about our wives, our girlfriends, our sons, our daughters.
                                         
                                        We have to start to understand how our decisions affect the lives of our children,
                                         
                                        our wives, our girlfriends, our family, our community.
                                         
                                        We have to stop pointing the finger.
                                            Starting point is 01:31:02 
                                        and blaming everybody for what we're going through,
                                         
                                        that there is a category of men
                                         
                                        who we just have to say, you know what, enough is enough.
                                         
                                        We have to own our mess.
                                         
                                        I teach my two sons that real men take accountability
                                         
                                        and that real men know how to apologize
                                         
                                        and real men just own their crap.
                                         
                                        This is what I tell my sons.
                                            Starting point is 01:31:21 
                                        Can I just speak frankly?
                                         
                                        I tell my sons, Malacca and Josiah,
                                         
                                        I said, don't make excuses.
                                         
                                        I said, we don't allow that in this house.
                                         
                                        Own your crap, is what I say to them.
                                         
                                        You didn't take out the,
                                         
                                        trash, own that. You got into
                                         
                                        a beef of one of your sisters and you were wrong, own that.
                                            Starting point is 01:31:37 
                                        You dropped the ball or something your mother
                                         
                                        and I told you to do, own that. So I teach my sons,
                                         
                                        don't make excuses. It makes me
                                         
                                        allergic. I hate to hear men, just making
                                         
                                        excuses and, you know, just
                                         
                                        own your crap.
                                         
                                        So good. Take it to God.
                                         
                                        Repent, cry. Let the father
                                            Starting point is 01:31:54 
                                        love when you like a son
                                         
                                        or like the father you did not have. Own your
                                         
                                        crap and just
                                         
                                        have a desire to say, you know what?
                                         
                                        I want to be a man of character.
                                         
                                        I want to be a man of integrity.
                                         
                                        I want to be a holy man.
                                         
                                        I want to be a pure man.
                                            Starting point is 01:32:13 
                                        I want to be close to Jesus.
                                         
                                        I want to have a biblical.
                                         
                                        Like, just have a desire for those things
                                         
                                        that men are not taught in the street
                                         
                                        and not taught coming up through school.
                                         
                                        Like, just have a desire for the things
                                         
                                        that make you a better man on the inside first.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 01:32:30 
                                        That just becomes much easier for it to be a better man
                                         
                                        outside to the people who are all around you.
                                         
                                        It's like men
                                         
                                        in our nature, we have a desire
                                         
                                        for everything that you can touch. We want
                                         
                                        cars and money and fame and
                                         
                                        status, but we want all of that
                                         
                                        that helps
                                            Starting point is 01:32:49 
                                        men in their insecurity,
                                         
                                        stroke their egos and all those things.
                                         
                                        But we need to tell more men to desire to
                                         
                                        things that are intangible that will
                                         
                                        make them better men.
                                         
                                        That is so good. And even
                                         
                                        I think radical accountability
                                         
                                        would offset most of the issues with men.
                                            Starting point is 01:33:07 
                                        I think it's ownership.
                                         
                                        It's accountability.
                                         
                                        It is.
                                         
                                        It is.
                                         
                                        I just think it's those three things.
                                         
                                        I think it is spiritual in nature.
                                         
                                        What is happening to men.
                                         
                                        There's a category of men that need to be comforted.
                                            Starting point is 01:33:19 
                                        They need to find places where they confess and find love and find comfort and healing and all the things.
                                         
                                        And then there's a category of man that just needs to be confronted.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Bro, enough is enough.
                                         
                                        Enough.
                                         
                                        Come on now.
                                         
                                        So good.
                                         
                                        You have too many people depending on you.
                                            Starting point is 01:33:33 
                                        Let's make a pivot.
                                         
                                        Praise Jesus.
                                         
                                        And we need it.
                                         
                                        We need more godly men in this generation.
                                         
                                        I mean, I'm seeing women have kids on their own.
                                         
                                        And we're seeing too many single women who love God who are believing for godly husbands.
                                         
                                        Yes.
                                         
                                        We need godly men in this hour, right?
                                            Starting point is 01:33:50 
                                        I think all the ladies can say amen to that.
                                         
                                        Amen.
                                         
                                        We need godly men.
                                         
                                        And if we had more time, I would want to ask you, how as a leader do you disciple a congregation of men into being masculine?
                                         
                                        Okay, we'll do a part three.
                                         
                                        Pastor Philips, thank you.
                                         
                                        A P.A.M. Part three.
                                         
                                        By the way, I love the P.A.M. version of the Bible.
                                            Starting point is 01:34:13 
                                        You should write a whole, we'll talk.
                                         
                                        We'll talk.
                                         
                                        Thank you so much.
                                         
                                        Pastor Philip.
                                         
                                        Man, thank you all.
                                         
                                        Can you just tell us a little bit about the book?
                                         
                                        Tell us about contend.
                                         
                                        Yes, so we made an announcement about the book.
                                            Starting point is 01:34:26 
                                        I have a book coming out in October.
                                         
                                        October 13th, is that correct?
                                         
                                        October 13th.
                                         
                                        Right. I think October 13.
                                         
                                        That's right.
                                         
                                        The book drops October 13th.
                                         
                                        I believe if the date doesn't change, the book is called contend.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                            Starting point is 01:34:42 
                                        It's about the message of Jude.
                                         
                                        And I'm not right.
                                         
                                        I didn't write this book.
                                         
                                        The book is not, it has not been written to get to a bag, right?
                                         
                                        God has been very kind to me.
                                         
                                        The book was written to awaken the body of Christ to the hour that we are in,
                                         
                                        the times that we're living in and the need for the bride to contend.
                                         
                                        for the faith in this hour, both in culture and in our hearts.
                                            Starting point is 01:35:08 
                                        And so it is meant to help the believer to strengthen themselves in conviction.
                                         
                                        And on the inside, it'll lead them back to the scriptures.
                                         
                                        It'll lead them back to Christ.
                                         
                                        It'll put a fire up under the reader.
                                         
                                        That is my prayer.
                                         
                                        And it comes out October.
                                         
                                        It's available right now for pre-order on Amazon.
                                         
                                        So they can go look up, you know, Philip Anthony Mitchell content.
                                            Starting point is 01:35:32 
                                        It's available for pre-order.
                                         
                                        order and I just pray that it'll be a blessing to the body of Christ. Yeah. It's the version of me that
                                         
                                        people don't see. I love to write. I've kept a journal for like 20-something years. Wow. Right. And although
                                         
                                        I'm a very urban dude, I write. I have depth on the inside. Oh, we know. Yeah, so I poured it out in my
                                         
                                        writing. I can't wait to read this. It leaks out on my on my feeds. Yeah. Right. Right. And so this is,
                                         
                                        this is the next iteration of my ministry and I hope that it could be.
                                         
                                        be a blessing to some people.
                                         
                                        Oh, it will be.
                                            Starting point is 01:36:05 
                                        Thank you all for allowing me to talk about that.
                                         
                                        Oh my gosh.
                                         
                                        Yeah, I kind of flocke want to have a whole episode where we just talk about the book,
                                         
                                        but we'll talk about that later.
                                         
                                        Yes.
                                         
                                        Yeah.
                                         
                                        Thank you.
                                         
                                        Thank you.
                                            Starting point is 01:36:16 
                                        Thank you.
                                         
                                        Thank you.
                                         
                                        We bless what Jesus is doing in you through you.
                                         
                                        Thank you for us.
                                         
                                        And what he's doing in y'all.
                                         
                                        Thank you.
                                         
                                        We love you.
                                         
                                        We love you.
                                            Starting point is 01:36:24 
                                        We love you.
                                         
                                        We love you.
                                         
                                        We love you so much.
                                         
                                        May the Lord bless you and keep you.
                                         
                                        May he make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you.
                                         
                                        he turned his face towards you and give you peace.
                                         
                                        Shalom, shalom.
                                         
                                        We love you guys so much.
                                          There aren't comments yet for this episode. Click on any sentence in the transcript to leave a comment.      
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
            
            

    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                    
                
                
                     © PodScripts.co - Podcast transcripts and discussion
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                            Privacy Policy