How many times
has God showed you something in your
imagination
that you thought was so wonderful and
then you took it in there to your family
and your friends and you shared it with
them and they shot it down? You know why
they shot it down? Cuz they couldn't see
it.
>> You know why they didn't see it? Cuz God
ain't show it to them. He showed it to
you. Amen.
>> God put it in your imagination. HE DON'T
PUT IT IN OTHER PEOPLE'S IMAGINATION.
STOP TELLING YOUR VISIONS TO OTHER
PEOPLE CUZ THEY NOT GOING TO SEE IT. WHY
you think you keep imagining opening a
business? Why you keep imagining
graduating, getting a better job? Why do
you keep imagining buying a house? Why
do you keep imagining driving a really
nice car? WHY DO YOU keep imagining
getting RICH ONE DAY? WHY DO YOU KEEP
IMAGINING THAT? Because God is talking
to you. He's showing you something that
he has for you.
He puts it in your imagination, man.
See, God is good, man. You've got to
understand how good God is.
>> He ain't playing with you. He the real
deal. He created you and then he even
showed you what he got for you.
>> You got to start believing in your
imagination.
>> You got to start talking to him about
these stuff you be seeing.
But you have not cuz you ask not.
>> So if you see the vision, the
imagination, but you don't ask God for
it, what you want him to do? He showed
it to you. Faith without works is dead.
So now you got to put in work. All of
y'all sitting in here,
you want a better life. Correct?
>> Had you Haven't you imagined a better
life?
>> Okay. Who Who you think he showed it to?
He showed it to you. Why you think he
showed it to you? Cuz he want to give it
to you. But if you don't work, if you
don't ask him for it, he cannot give it
to you. Because he created us with the
power of choice. We make choices every
day. If you decide that you will be
poor, there's nothing I can do. You
going to be poor.
If you decide to be rich today, who
going to stop you? Who?
If you decide you want to be rich, all
you got to do is start.
Why not? Who going to stop you? Unless
you tell it to the wrong person.
Mama, mama, listen to me. I'm going to
be rich. Ain't nobody rich in this
family. Go in there and sit down
somewhere. Get yourself a good job.
Oh, mama, you must be right. No, mama
could be wrong because what you have in
your imagination, God didn't show it to
your mama. I'm sorry.
He showed it to you.
Listen to me. If y'all don't do nothing
else, write everything you imagine down.
Write it all down. Pray about it. And
watch what happened.
Watch what happens. Cuz let me tell you
something. If God can fix me, you have
no idea who you looking at.
>> You have no idea what I've done.
>> You have no idea what I've been through.
You You wouldn't even talk to me if you
knew what I had to do to be here.
But God is in the forgiving business.
>> God is in the get your life together
business. God is in the turn it around
business. God is in the saving business.
God did all that for me. So, I'm telling
you right now, if God can fix Steve
Harvey and turn him into this, I bet he
can turn you into that. All right. Thank
God.
Let's understand something.
We're all participating in this thing
called life.
All of us.
Life has evident flows. Mountaintops.
It's got valleys. It's got it's got
thunderstorms in it, earthquakes. This
life, it don't you stop expecting it to
go smooth cuz it ain't going to go
smooth. The road to success is always
under construction. Ain't no This is
This life ain't set up to be smooth.
You You combat negativity
and you combat uh discouraging
discouragement with gratitude.
It's the one way to combat
discouragement
is with gratitude. What messes you up is
you focus on the thing that's not
happening. And that causes you to get
discouraged. So whenever you get
discouraged, you have to change your
focus from what's not happening to what
has happened. And it straightens you out
immediately because what causes the the
the downslide is if you get wrapped up
into what ain't happening, it get ugly,
man. And it just snowballs. But you have
to focus on gratitude. People understand
how serious gratitude is. You know, it's
it's a serious principle of success.
It's hard to be miserable
and grateful at the same time.
It's,
>> you know, I learned this at my mother's
funeral, man, which was like the
roughest. That week of my life was like
chaotic, man. I thought I was going to
die. My mama passed. I was 40. I didn't
do good, man. I thought I was crumbling.
I really I really, man, I didn't I
didn't know what that was, man. The most
important person to me was gone. I was I
was crushed. I thought I was going to
die. And at the funeral, my mother was a
Sunday school teacher for 40 years. And
I'm devastated. My mother's in a casket.
That that's just not the picture I ever
wanted to see. Right. And uh I was
struggling with her being up there and
uh the preacher stood up and he said, "I
know y'all hurting. I got two brothers
and two sisters." He said, "But I want
y'all to look around at this church." My
mama had been a Sunday school teacher
for 40 years. Church was packed. It was
packed. He said, "The overflow room is
full."
He said, "We've put up projector screens
in the parking lot. We don't do that on
Easter.
We just set up projector screens in the
parking lot cuz so many people then came
to see your mother off said cuz your
mother meant something to everybody." My
mama, my church, my mama's uh funeral
was filled with the hood,
the gangsters, the pimps, the hustlers,
the dope boys, the police, the
politicians, church people. He started
talking about, he said, "Look how full
this church is. Look at the lives she
touched. Look what she meant to so many
people. We got people in this church we
ain't seen in years." He said, "Look at
this and I want you to think of all the
incredible things your mother has ever
done." And then he started listing the
things she had done around the church
and what people had said about her. And
we started smiling and this is the first
time I had smiled in a week. That week
was ugly for me. And he said, "Now
listen to this. You see the smiles on
your face." He said, "Joy and depression
cannot reside in the same space."
So when you get down and you start
thinking about how dark it is, I want
you to remember everything your mother
taught you that was good and that
replaced all the negative thoughts I was
having. Cuz joy and depression cannot
reside in the same space. Well, now you
got to take that concept and apply it to
your life. If joy and depression cannot
reside in the same place, when you get
depressed and you get discouraged, you
got to replace it with joy. And what
more can and more joyous than gratitude?
What has God done for you? Didn't you
wake up today?
>> Ain't you still breathing? Don't you
have some measure of health? Ain't you
working? You may not have a car you
want, but don't you have a car? Ain't
you eating groceries today? You ain't
homeless. Now, when you start tripping
and you get depressed, you got to go,
you got to go into yourself and come up
with some gratitude. Once you get
grateful, you can't be discouraged and
grateful at the same time. You cannot do
it. [applause] That's [cheering] how you
come back every single time. It happened
to me the other day. I woke up. I just
wasn't on the right side of the bed.
Went downstairs and started doing my
meditation. I pull out a list of
everything I'm grateful for. By the time
I got to the 13th thing, I thank God for
75 things every morning. By the time I
got to 13, I was fine. Cuz guess what?
I'm alive. I'm breathing. I'm healthy.
I'm f to go do a job. I tell jokes. They
f to pay me. Lord, they f to pay me.
My grandkids is healthy. My children is
healthy.
>> They ain't calling me asking me for
nothing. They did at 10, but at 8, they
didn't want nothing.
I just started feeling That's That's how
you do it. That's how you come back. I'm
telling you, it works. It works. You You
got to identify your gift and go and go
do what you gifted at. You ain't You
ain't got to be smart. You don't got to
have a degree. You don't have to go to
UCLA or none of that. You could be
highly successful and go to no school.
Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates don't have a
degree between none of them. They got
more degrees working for them than a
thermometer.
Just go follow your dream, man. Go make
your life happen. My whole career is
dedicated to all my punk teachers that
told me, "Sit down. Acting a fool. You
ain't going to ever make no money acting
a fool.
It's all I had. I just used what I had.
Identify your God-given gift and go on
get your life. Quit tripping cuz you
don't have what a group of people told
you you need to be successful. If you're
not a degree person, you can go to
school all you want. If that's not in
you, what how you going to get a degree?
Quit letting people tell you the route
to success when clearly God created you
to be different. Just go that route. All
my friends got college degrees. All of
them.
[laughter]
your laugh.
>> I flew all of them to Cancun, Mexico
last year.
>> I flew all of them. I flew 22 people to
Cancun, Mexico on me. Gave them all free
rooms, paid for everybody's golf, all
they food, all they drink. Gave them
everything cuz these my dudes. I went to
college with them. I flunked out. But
what God did me gave made me different.
So I just showed them the life. Now,
they all come to me for advice. You
don't have to go get a degree if you're
not a degree person. Now, if you want to
be a doctor, scientist, or lawyer, you
got to get a degree. But if you're not
that person, you can still make it. Quit
tripping cuz you don't have what he got.
You ain't going to be what he is. God
made you different. Just go be
different. You get paid to be different.
People pay you to be different. Weird
people make money. Regular people don't
make money.
Regular people make regular money. If
God made you exceptional, go be
exceptional at whatever it is. That's
how you become it. People pay for
expertise. They pay for exceptional
people. They don't pay regular people.
If you focus in on being regular, you
going to have a regular life. It's
nothing wrong with that. But if you
aspire to something more than regular,
you got to go be extraordinary. The
difference between ordinary people and
and extraordinary people is one word,
extra. If you put extra on top of
ordinary, you become extraordinary. You
you ain't got to be like everybody else.
If you do hair, go do everybody's hair.
If you cut grass, cut everybody grass.
When I first started doing comedy, you
know how much I made every night? $25.
Then I made 50.
Then I worked. I started charging 75.
When I got up to $150 a night, oh, I was
so happy. I was only working two, three
nights a week, but I got up to 150. Oh,
and I messed around, kept working,
started charging $1,000 a week. When I
started making $1,000 a week, man, I
thought I was going to be so happy. And
then I met a comedian who told me he
made $5,000 a week. I went, "What?" He
said, "I make 5,000 a week." So, I got
busy. I made 5,000 a week. I'm going
along. I'm making 5,000 every week. I'm
touring the country. I meet a guy named
Sinbag on a park bench in Birmingham,
Alabama. Sinbag was sitting on a park
bench with a bag of trash next to him. A
trash bag.
I met him because he was starting to be
a very famous comedian named Sinbag.
Very popular. I said, "Man, so we
talking. I'm homeless at the time
because I'm having a lot of trouble. And
I meet him and uh I said, "Hey man,
where you going?" He said, "I'm going to
Florida." I said, "I'm Steve Harvey.
I've seen your pictures in the comedy
club." I said, "We got to talking. We
got comfortable." I said, "Hey man,
what's in that bag?" He said, "That's my
pay."
I said, "Your pay?" He said, "I get paid
cash." He had in the bag $65,000
in cash. I said, "How did you do that?"
He said, 'I'm a draw at the comedy
club.' I said, 'What does that mean?' He
said, 'People make pay money to come see
me, so I cut deals at the comedy club
where I get a percentage of the door. I
said, really?
65,000 a week?
I kept hustling, hustling, hustling.
I found out what it was to make 65. This
is years, though. It's years in the
making. 65,000 a week.
today.
If you call me and tell me that you want
me to come somewhere for $100,000,
I am not coming
because for 33 years I have done the
same thing over and over and over. I
took the $25
jokes. These the same jokes, they just
English. They're the same words I've
been using. I just kept doing them over
and over and over. $100,000 tonight, I'm
not coming. $250,000,
I'm your man. You see, I built it over
the years, but it's the same $25 jokes.
You can stop wherever you want or you
can keep going. That's how you get
successful financially. Stop beating
yourself up trying to come up with a
million-doll idea. Take this $10 idea
that God has instilled in you already
and go make it and multiply it and do it
over and over and over and over. Do you
know it's people selling sugar cane
making millions of dollars? You know
it's people in Ghana selling cocoa beans
making millions of dollars.
Hello.
They Nike started with one pair of
shoes.
They just kept making shoes. Nike didn't
do nothing else. They just kept making
shoes over and over and over and over
and over. A billion dollar company.
I told them all, I don't care what you
get a degree in. Until you follow your
dream and connect it to your gift,
you'll never be happy.
>> You'll never be happy. Man,
I just got to tell you,
you got to chase that dream before you
die. Man,
>> you should go and live your dream. Just
go see.
God puts your real life in your
imagination. That's where your real your
real life ain't in your present
circumstance. Your real life is not in
your current situation. Your real life
is not in your paycheck. your real life.
He tucks it away in your imagination.
Albert Einstein said, "Imagination is
everything. It's the preview to life's
coming attractions."
Everything you imagine is a preview to a
coming attraction. Once you understand
that and quit looking at your
imagination as hocus pocus, it opens up
a wide range of things and
possibilities. And God puts your real
life in your imagination. Listen to me.
This is serious what I'm telling you.
Don't you think it's nothing else?
Imagination is everything. It's the
preview to life's coming attractions.
That simply means everything that's in
your imagination is a preview of a
coming attraction that God has for you.
That's why he puts it in your
imagination. That's why when you tell
your imagination to the wrong people, it
don't go nowhere. Right?
>> You ever had something you thought was a
brilliant idea and you took it in there
to your family and your loved ones and
they shot it down? You know why they
shot it down? Cuz they couldn't see it.
>> Cuz God didn't put it in their
imagination. He put it in your
imagination. If you want to kill a big
dream, tell it to a smallminded person.
>> A mother die like that. [applause]
It'll just die.
I walked in that house, man, and told
everybody I was quitting my job to go be
a comedian. Everybody in that house shot
that down. My ex-wife shot it down. Her
mother-in-law shot it down. My mama shot
it down. All my friends shot it down. My
brothers and sisters shot it down. Don't
you quit your job. Go be no comedian.
You can't make no money telling no jokes
like that. It's 1985. Who you think you
are? If I had listened to them,
>> I wouldn't even be here today. But I
didn't listen [applause] because it was
evidently clear to me. God had put it in
my imagination that one day I would be
on st. That was an old song that the
Temptations had. It was written by
Donnie Hathaway and it's called a song
for you. And one of the stanzas in the
song I used to sing as a little boy.
I've acted out my life on stages with
10,000 people watching and we are alone
and I'm singing this song for you. I
used to always imagine myself in front
of 10,000 people.
>> Man, I'm one of original kings of
comedy, man. You know how many people I
done been in front of? I done told jokes
in front of 44,000 people before.
But if I had listened to my mother, who
was saved and a Christian and a Sunday
school teacher, if I had listened to
her, I wouldn't have quit my job.
All my brothers, everybody told me, "You
can't go be no comedian.
I left anyway. I won amateur night on
October 8th, 1985. Won 50 bucks. I went
to work the next day, October 9th, 1985.
Quit my job. Everybody in my
neighborhood called me a fool.
I sent planes, pick all of them up, take
them to shows and
all of them. All of them. [applause]
You got to chase that dream before you
die, man. Bishop Jake said one time,
Bishop Jake said, "I would hate to die
and never do the thing I was born to do.
[music]
>> [music]