We're talking about God's will. And I
wonder how many of you, those of you
that are Christians, how many of you
like sincerely want God's will for your
life? Raise your hand. You can type it
in the comment section. I want God's
will for my life. I know you do. Uh
because most of us as Christians, we
don't struggle with wanting God's will.
We struggle with waiting for God's will.
Or we struggle with discerning God's
will. We want it, but we just don't
really know what it is. And what tends
to happen, I've noticed with three
decades of pastoring, there's kind of a
common thing that happens with
Christians, is we have a decision to
make. We know, should I go there, should
I do this, should I do that? And so we
pray about it and then we overthink
every option
and we analyze every angle and we do a
pros and a cons. And then we pray and we
still feel stuck because so many of us
deep down we're afraid we're going to
miss God's will. We're going to miss the
perfect moment. We might make the wrong
decision, take the wrong job, marry the
wrong person, and have the wrong life.
And that's a lot of pressure for someone
who can't figure out what they're going
to do for dinner.
Right? And I get it. And the thing is
for so many of us, we don't realize that
while we're chasing the perfect answer
for tomorrow,
we're often missing what God wants us to
do today.
And that's why we talked about this
principle la last week that one of the
biggest mistakes that so many of us make
when trying to discern the will of God
is the big mistake we make is we over
complicate God's will and underestimate
God's goodness. We over complicate his
will. We think it's like a dot on a map
that if we hit it, we hit it. If we miss
it, we miss it. But we don't know how
good God is that he guides us. He
directs us. He counsels us. his loving
hand is upon us. And so I want to work
through God's word to continue to kind
of uncomplicate God's word. And I want
to show you something about his word.
And and I'm not making an overstatement
when I say this. Like literally this
truth has the potential to change your
life. It genuinely does. And here's what
we tend to do. So many of us as
Christians, we tend to think about God's
will in terms of what we do. what we do.
God, what do you want me to do? God,
what do you want me to do now? God, what
do you want me to do next? God, what do
you want me to do then? God, what do you
want me to do later? God, what do you
want me to do?
The challenge is this that I would
suggest at a deeper level. God isn't
thinking do do that God God's will is
more about a who than it is a do.
>> That when you look at God's word, he's
more concerned
with who you're becoming. Are you
becoming more like Jesus? than exactly
what job you take or where you live.
That God is more concerned with who you
are, your your character, the way you
treat people than he is about your
profession. Because before God guides
your steps, he actually wants to shape
your character. He wants you to be
conformed to the image of Christ. And so
when you look at God's will, it's not
just about what do I major in and and
and what job do I take and and where do
I live, but it's about your heart and
your character and your relationship
with him. And that's why knowing God's
will
starts with knowing God's heart. And
that's why the title today is stop over
complicating God's will. Pray with me,
please. Father, we ask that you would
guide us through your word. Not just to
do what's right, to become, but to
become like Jesus. And then as you're
conforming us to him, the overflow, the
fruits of the spirit would lead us. Your
word would lead us, your spirit would
lead us to do your will. But God,
conform us first to become like you. So
when we're more like you, we'll live
like you. We pray this in Jesus name.
And everybody said, "Amen." If you agree
online, type amen. We know you're there.
We love you. We're glad you're with us
today. We're talking about God's will.
And when we talk about God's will, uh
many of us, what we're tempted to do is
we tend to lock in on what we consider
the big things in life. God, what's your
will for the big things in life? Like,
God, what's your will for where I work
and um what job I take when I work
there? And God, where do I live? Do I do
I rent or do I buy? Everybody knows you
can't buy a house now. No, hopefully you
can't. God, what do you want for me? Um
God, should I marry this person or do
you have someone better coming along? Uh
when should I get married? Should we
have kids now? Should we have kids
later? Should we have two kids? Should
we have three kids? God, help us if we
have four kids. God, what do you want
for us? Should we put them in the school
down the street? Should we try to put
him in a private school? But what if God
calls us to homeschool?
If God calls you to homeschool, as a
family that did homeschool, I'll just
tell you what to expect. Three things.
Ready? Expect PE to be in your backyard.
Expect to teach fractions with chocolate
chips. And expect every trip to the
grocery store to be a field trip. That's
just what I'm telling you. Back to the
message. Uh we tend to obsess over the
major life moves
with very little thought
to the daily choices that shape who
we're actually becoming,
>> right? We focus on like which college am
I supposed to go to with little thought
about how much time you're wasting
mindlessly scrolling on social media.
Yeah,
>> we freak out about who we're supposed to
date or marry with little thought about
how we treat the person God put right in
front of us at the grocery store.
And when you look at God's word, and
we're going to look at a lot of God's
word today, um it actually says very
little about your future. The Bible
doesn't talk about like who you should
marry in the future or where you should
live in in in in the future or about
like what job you should take in the
future. In fact, when Jesus talks about
jobs, one of the things he says most is
that people actually left their job in
order to follow him.
When you look at God's word, he doesn't
talk a lot about the future, but he
talks a lot about how you should treat
people today and how you should use your
money today and how you should think
today and what you should do with your
time today. When Jesus talks about the
future, let me show you what he says.
Jesus says, "So don't worry about
tomorrow." Matthew 6:34. Don't worry
about the future for tomorrow will bring
its own worries. Today's trouble is
enough for today. Don't worry about the
future. When James talks about the
future, this is what he says. James
4:13. Now listen, you who say, "I'm
going to plan my future." You who say,
"Today or tomorrow, we'll do this, go to
this city, that city, spend a year
there, carry on business, and make
money." He says, "Why? You don't even
know what'll happen tomorrow.
Tomorrow's not even a guarantee." He
asked, "What is your life? You're a mist
that appears for a little while and then
vanishes."
Instead of saying, "I'm going to do
this, and this is what my future's going
to look like," instead, you ought to
say, "If it's the Lord's will, we will
live and do this or that." When we're
looking at God's will, he's not trying
to get you to figure out the future.
God wants you to seek him and know him
today.
>> He wants you to serve him today. He
wants you to be led by the spirit today.
He wants you to have the fruits of the
spirit in your life. Love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, goodness,
gentleness, faithfulness, and
self-control today. Amen.
>> And so if you want to know God's will,
get to know God's heart.
>> And the longer you get to know his
heart, the more you get to know him
through his word, the more his word
renews your mind, the more you can hear
the voice of the spirit, the more he's
prompting you, the more you learn to
walk by faith instead of by sight. The
more you die to your flesh and let his
spirit live through you, the more his
spirit produces fruit that that that
makes a difference in the world instead
of you seeking your own will but letting
him guide your steps today toward his
will in the future. The more you walk
with him, the more you get to know him,
the more you enjoy him. Delight in the
Lord. He'll give you the desires of your
heart. The more you enjoy him, the more
you realize
the best way to find God's will for your
future
is to live faithfully for Jesus today.
>> It's a game changer. It's a game
changer. It's a game changer. God's will
is not as much about a do as it is a
who. And the better you get to know him
and the more faithfully you live for him
today, the more confidence that you
could have he's going to lead you to
where he wants you to be tomorrow. Now,
if you weren't here last week, I want to
review some important principles. We
talked about the four different wills of
God, kind of like four different
qualities of of of God's will. And we
started with God's sovereign will. If
you remember, that's the uh master plan.
That's the overarching narrative of what
God's going to do. Whether you like it
or not, it's his sovereign will. We
talked about God's moral will. This is
his revealed will in his word for how
you live. We talked about God's
permissive will. There are some things
because he loves us, he gave us free
will. Because he gave us free will. Some
people do things that are not pleasing.
We live in a broken world. There are
things that God allows. We may not like
them, but God allows them and then he
uses them toward his sovereign will. And
we talked about God's personal will.
This is what he wants for each of you.
And God had plans for you before you
were even born that he reveals in his
personal will for you. So let's talk
about the moral will. This is God's
revealed will for your life.
What is God's moral will for you? Let me
tell you what it's not. It's not that
you'd be a graphic designer.
It's not that you'd be a YouTuber, but
that would be cool. It's not that you'd
be a stay-at-home parent. God's moral
will for you is revealed in his word.
God's will for you is to be what?
>> Is to be holy. We looked at this last
week. Let's build upon it. What is the
Greek word for holy? It's the word
hagios. And haggios means to be set
apart, different, sacred, dedicated to
God. What is God's moral will for you?
Is to be different from the sinful,
selfish world. Is to be set apart. Is to
be sacred. Is to be dedicated to God.
And this is what Paul said in Romans
12:2. He said, "Do not be conformed to
the patterns of this world.
Don't be like the fallen world. Don't
speak like them. Don't treat people like
them. Don't let your world be shaped by
the media like them. Don't waste your
life doing stupid things like them.
Don't be entertained by the baseless
sinful things like them. Don't use your
money like them. Don't have marriages
that end in divorce 50% of the time like
them. Don't raise your children like
them. Have values that honor Christ. Do
not be conformed to the patterns of this
world, but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind. The more you get
to know God's heart, the more you live
his will. By the renewing of your mind,
then watch this.
When you're set apart,
then when you're not transformed to this
world, then when you are different, then
do not be conformed to the patterns of
this world, but be transformed. Be set
apart. Be holy. Live a sacred life. Then
you will be able to test and approve
what God's will is. His good, pleasing,
and perfect will. Before you worry about
his will for the future, worry about his
moral will for how you live today.
>> Be set apart. Be holy. Now,
I don't like this sermon, Craig. You
might say that. Hopefully, it's only two
of you, but you might say that. say,
"But Craig, I always thought like God
was going to have this like this calling
for my life."
And he does. But you're like, "Isn't he
calling me to be a missionary?
Isn't he calling me to be an influencer?
Isn't he calling me to be a pastor?
Isn't he calling me to be a programmer?
Isn't he calling me to marry someone
rich that has a second home in Hawaii?
Maybe
But remember, God's will, God's calling
for you is more about a who than a do.
Look at his word. Second Timothy 1:9.
For God saved us and called us
what? To live a holy life. It's more
about it's it's a who? It's what we do
today. He called us to live a holy life.
God did this not because we deserved it.
This is amazing. This is the gospel. But
because that was his plan. This was his
plan for you
before the beginning of time to show us
his grace through Christ Jesus.
And that's why when it comes to seeking
God's will, you might want to change the
question that you're asking. Here's what
most people are asking. Most people are
saying,"What does God want me to do?
>> What do you want me to do? What do I do
now? What do I do later? What do I do
next?" God, "What do you want me to do?"
Instead of asking God, "What do you want
me to do?" You might want to ask, "Who
does God want me to become?" That's
good.
>> Literally,
>> that this can this can change
how you treat people
>> and what you do when you wake up in the
morning
and who you become,
which actually shapes what you do.
God, who do you want me to become?
Not where do I go to school? Who do you
want me to be when I'm at that school?
God, who do you want me to marry? No.
How do you want me to treat the person
I'm dating right now?
And let me try to unpack it. I'm going
to ask you a question about me, and I
hope you're generous in your answer
because I'm sensitive. I get my feelings
hurt easily.
Uh, how many of you would say that it's
probably God's will that I preach the
gospel? Raise your hand. about
threequarters of you. Okay, great. Thank
you.
That's a passing vote. It's about 50%.
The other 25%
if you don't think that, I just like
lovingly recommend you might find a
church where you have confidence.
Just saying. There's a lot of those
people out there that don't think I am.
But if you think I am, okay, let's let's
start there. Now, raise your hands. Do
you think it's God's will for me to be
holy?
Absolutely. Every hand raised there.
Good. That's right. If if we look at it
objectively, I would say this. Preaching
is a calling, but it is absolutely and
completely a secondary calling.
>> Because my primary calling is to be
holy.
>> It is a who before a do.
>> God's will is for me to have integrity.
And God's will is for me not to be
conformed to the patterns of this world,
but be transformed by the renewing of my
mind. Then I'll be able to test and
prove what his will is. God's will is
for me to die to my selfish desires and
live for his glory and how I love and
treat people. God's will for me is to
lay down my life to love my wife as
Christ loved the church. God's will for
me is to live a life in front of my
children that inspire them to live a
life for the glory of God.
Preaching is a secondary calling. Living
a holy life is my primary calling. And
so if you kind of unpack that, if I'm a
good preacher,
but I neglect my family,
I'm not in God's will.
>> And play it out however you want to. If
you're a successful whatever you are and
you're unkind to people, you are not in
God's will.
>> And if I had time, I'd like kind of go
crazy on Christians who think they're
right and have no fruit.
>> Come on. I mean, you're so dang right up
here. You're so busy making a point.
You're not making any kind of difference
at all. We'll save that for another
time, but you can tell I could preach it
if we had time.
I am convinced for my life. God would
rather me do anything else
with my career,
do anything else with integrity
than to be a pastor without integrity
>> because his primary will is for me to be
holy. So, okay, we're talking about
God's will. Okay? Like, so, is there one
perfect career path for you that's God's
will? Is there one perfect place to live
that's God's will? Here's the big one.
Is there one perfect person for you to
marry that God's will? I hate to break
your romance, but I got to tell you, no,
the answer is not. And I can prove it to
you. How many of you know someone that
obviously completely married the wrong
person? Raise your hand. Raise your
hand. Right. Your cousin Butch
married Betty.
And when Butch married Betty, all hell
broke loose and they're not married
anymore. So guess what they did? They
messed up the whole system.
Think about it. One wrong marriage
messed up the whole thing.
So
God is not choosing one perfect person
for you to marry as much as he wants to
be perfecting you to become like Jesus
to treat the person that you marry like
Jesus calls you to preach them. You see
you see where we're going. And so that's
why
God's word says this. Paul said in 1
Corinthians 10:31 he said whatever you
do
it for the glory of God. Whatever you
do, right? Like wherever you live, live
there for the glory of God. Treat your
neighbors with the love of Jesus instead
of driving in your house and never
talking to them.
>> Whoever you're dating, date with
integrity and purity and the fruits of the
spirit and an honorable way for the
glory of God.
>> Amen.
>> If you're married, if you're single, be
married for the glory of God. Be single
for the glory of God.
>> Wherever you work, work there for the
glory of God. If you work at Life Church
as an intern, work for the glory of God.
If you apply for the internship and you
want the internship, but you don't get
the internship because God didn't allow
you to get the internship or because
some person didn't see how amazing you
are and then you go to grad school, go
to grad school for the glory of God and
don't be mad that he shut one door
because he's going to open up another
one.
>> If you work at the front desk at a bank,
do it for the glory of God. If you mow
yards on the weekend, make the best
straight godhonoring grass lines
possible and treat people well, exceed
their expectations for the glory of God.
If you own a business, treat people well
and add value and be generous and
believe in others for the glory of God.
If you're changing diapers, wipe that
butt clean for the glory of God. If
you're taking your kids to Costco and
you're homeschooling, create the best
environment for a field trip to Costco.
These are pickles. God made them or
somebody made them. God made the thing
that made the pickles. I don't know. I
just went off script and I got in
trouble. Whatever you do,
stay on the plan. Stay on the plan.
Whatever you do, do it for the glory of
God.
Because we all want God's will for the
future,
>> but tomorrow's not guaranteed.
>> Tomorrow's not guaranteed. In fact, when
you think about it, the only time you
can serve Jesus for certain
is today.
Just today. So, I say, "Okay, that makes
sense. It's more about a who than a do.
And God's will for me be holy." And what
I want you to do in your life group this
week is I want you just to slow it down.
I want you to ask God, where is it that
you want me to conform me to be like
Jesus?
Pride, anger, lust, greed, insecurity,
fear, doubt, whatever it is. Like, let's
just in our life, let's just open up and
say, "Where do where do you want me to
conform me to be like Jesus?" Let God
speak to you. I'm doing that right now.
And oh my gosh, if you're telling me all
the things wrong with me, your list is
way too short because God is showing me
a lot of things that he wants to do in
me. Open up. Confess your sins to one
another and pray for each other that you
may be healed. Just let God do a work in
you. Not like what's your will for the
future? Like who do you want me to be
today?
Now you say, "But hey, I got really big
plans for the future."
I think you should where there is no
vision that people perish. I want to I
want to make a bigger difference. I want
to be successful for the glory of God. I
want I want to be able to give more for
in the f I want to do big things in the
future. So let me tell you how to do big
things in the future. Do small things
for the glory of God today.
I promise you, do small things today
because if you're faithful in the small
things,
he'll trust you with more.
>> Now, you may say, "Okay, Craig, easy for
you to say cuz you and Amy are doing big
things, Mr. Big Boy." Okay, that's
debatable, whatever you say. But I if we
are doing big things, let me tell you
what the pathway was here.
Lots and lots and lots and lots and lots
of small things. years and years and
years of small things. In fact, I am so
emotional about Amy, it's crazy how how
I live with her so long and love her
even more. I I don't even know. But I
want to just walk over here for a minute
and I'm going to have her stand up if
she will.
And we can just kind of turn this way.
[Music]
So
if you if you look at she's doing big
things. She really is like she's raised
six kids. They're all married and all
faithfully serving Jesus with their
spouses in our church today.
And
she is a very godly wife and she writes
Bible studies.
um they're really really good. Um she
mentors women, she speaks at events, she
leads um the sisters ministry, which is
the ministry for women in the church.
And I think there's an event coming up
on maybe September the 23rd
of this year for the women of the church
that everybody's going to want to be at.
and she's going to preach to a lot of
people and it's going to be a great
God-honoring message because it always
is. And she started a nonprofit called
Branch 15 which has ministry homes
across the state of Oklahoma and she can
take a salary, donates all of her time
and ministers to women coming out of
really complicated situations. But
there's a lot of big things and they
are. But what I want you to know is the
small things led to the big things.
Meaning like the things that no one sees
bring about the things that everyone
wants. So, what no one sees is her up
early seeking God every single day on
her face, Bible open, praying for like a
long period of time. I feel guilty cuz
Pastor Craig doesn't pray like this girl
and she seeks God. And yes, she speaks
to a lot of women, ministers a lot of
women, but she's led small groups of
women for her whole adult life. And she
um is my mic going out? Can you give me
a handheld?
>> Let me just turn this way. She's
mentored um
this good. She's mentored um
middle school and and high school girls
in small groups for like 15 years
>> and branch 15 when you see the big
impact. Um what you don't see is it
started with nothing but a dream
>> and a first house and a lot of
generosity and and a lot of prayers and
and a lot of miracles from God. And then
when it comes to our marriage, um we're
very very blessed with a very very good
marriage. And I want you to know right
now she puts up with a lot
>> and you do too.
>> It it comes at a at a high price. and um
she is um she stood by my side for three
and a half decades and gives almost no
public credit but but endures all the
pain and pays the whole price.
>> And so I honor you and cherish you for
the small things in life.
>> It's the small things that lead to.
So,
so if you want to do if you want to do
big things in the future, do small
things today. You ready for a little
secret?
>> You ready for this?
>> Sometimes
the small things are the big things.
>> Sometimes
raising your babies,
those are big things.
And loving a small group of people are
the big things. And enduring what can be
a difficult husband
is a big thing. And so if you want to do
big things in the future, do small
things today. And you may realize the
small things are actually the big
things. So what are you going to do?
What's God calling you to do? He's
calling you to be holy,
to be set apart, to not be conformed to
the patterns of this world, but to be
transformed by the renewing of your
mind. That you can test and approve what
his will is, his good and perfect and
pleasing will. And you can be confident
that your job doesn't matter as much as
your heart. And where you live doesn't
matter as much as who you're becoming.
And while the world may applaud what you
do,
our father celebrates who you are.
>> Amen. And so we start with the who
before the do.
And the best way to find God's will for
the future
is to live faithfully for Jesus today.
So Father, help us do that as a church.
God, every single one of us, help us to
live faithfully
for you today to seek first the kingdom
of God and his righteousness
and then everything else will be added
unto us
today as you're praying um online or um
at our churches. No, nobody looking
around. Let me just ask you for those of
you that are followers of Jesus, not all
of you are, but you are you're a
follower of Jesus. How many of you
genuinely want to be faithful in the
small things? Raise your hand right now.
Raise them up. Raise them up. Leave them
up for a second online. Just type in the
comment section, I want to be faithful
to God in the small things. Leave your
hands up if you will. You can just kind
of make this like an act of worship. The
Bible tells us to lift up holy hands to
God. Just maybe just worship in your
heart as we're praying, God, with hands
lifted to you. We worship you, God. And
we thank you that you called us to live
a holy life, not because we deserved it,
but you displayed your grace for us
through Jesus. Forgave our sins. And now
call us to be set apart, different from
this world, foreigners of this world,
strangers in this world, ambassadors of
a message from heaven. So God, before we
freak out about tomorrow,
God, help us to live for you today.
Just say this with me if you will with
your hands lifted up. Just say,
"Whatever I do,
>> whatever I do,
>> I'll do for the glory of God."
>> I'll do for the glory of God.
>> God, just empower us. Whatever we do to
do for the glory of God. We pray this in
Jesus name. You can put your hands down.
Keep praying if you will without looking
around. Um what I want to do is I want
to talk to those of you that you know
you're not following Jesus. And I want I
want to just challenge you to be honest
about this because some of you grew up
around the church in the church
believing in God, but objectively you're
not following Jesus. I want you to just
call it what it is because you can have
a head knowledge but not have a heart
relationship. I want you to be honest
and call it what it is.
You're not set apart.
You're not letting the Holy Spirit
purify you so that you're living a holy
life. You're not living for Jesus today.
What do you do? Let me tell you right
now, there is no condemnation for those
who are in Christ Jesus. So, this isn't
a time to make you feel guilty. This is
a time just to bring awareness that if
you're living outside of the will of
God, you are missing the goodness of a
God who loves you and created you to
know him and to live for him and to
experience his personal will for your
life. So, what do you do? where you
recognize I actually I I have sinned.
I'm I'm not living according to what he
calls me to do. And what do you do? You
just confess your sins. And what's
amazing is the Bible says if you confess
your sins to God, he's faithful and just
to forgive your sins and to cleanse you
from all unrighteousness. That's how
good he is. Why does he do that? He is a
righteous God. He's a He's a He's a He's
a just God. And he sent his son
Jesus who was without sin to pay the
penalty, the price for our sins. Jesus
died in our place and God in his love
raised him from the dead so that anyone
and when I tell you anyone, this
includes you. Anyone who calls on the
name of Jesus, you'd be saved. Doesn't
matter what you've done. Doesn't matter
how bad you've been. Doesn't matter how
dark your life is. There are those of
you right now you recognize you're not
living for him. You don't know him.
You're not in his will. What are we
gonna We're going to step away from our
sinful life and we're going to step into
the grace of God and say, "Jesus,
forgive my sins. Take my life." When you
do, he'll hear your prayer. He'll
forgive your sins. He'll make you brand
new today. And all of our churches,
those of you online who recognize you're
not living for Jesus, what do we do? We
step away from our sin. We step into his
presence. We confess our sins. He
forgives our sins and you become brand
new. Today in all of our churches, those
who say, "That's me. I need that. I want
to give my life to him. God forgive my
sins. Make me new." When you call on
him, he forgives your prayers. He makes
you new. If that's you today and you
need a relationship with him, you want
the freedom and the forgiveness of sins.
You're ready to live for him. Would you
lift your hand high and say, "Yes,
that's me right here. God bless you."
And here, right there. God bless you
guys. Others today, right up there and
over there, lift it high and let me just
acknowledge you today. Say, "Yes, Jesus,
be the Lord of my life." Right back up
there. Others today saying, "Yes, Jesus,
I surrender." Right back up here, say,
"Yes, Jesus, be the Lord of my life."
Oh, church in the on online just type I
type in the comment section, I'm
surrendering my life to Jesus. And now
in this holy moment together as the
family of God, would you just pray with
those around you? Just pray. Heavenly
Father,
>> Heavenly Father,
>> I give you my life.
>> I give you my life.
>> Jesus, save me.
>> Jesus, save me
>> from my sins.
>> Make me brand new.
>> Make me brand new.
>> Fill me with your Holy Spirit. Fill me
with your Holy Spirit.
>> So I can know your voice.
>> So I can know your voice.
>> So I can do your will.
>> So I can do your
>> So I can show your love.
>> My life is not my own.
>> My life is not my own.
>> I give it all to you.
>> Give it all to you.
>> In Jesus name I pray.
>> In Jesus name I pray.
>> Can a church give God some praise today?
Can the church give God some praise
today? Can the church give Hey, come on
church. Like come on.
Don't just sit there and be quiet. Give
God some praise. 2500 people baptized
last week. Hey, we're not praying for
revival. We're living in the middle of
one. Somebody give God some praise
today. Did you connect with this
message? You know, when life feels
uncertain, we can trust that God is
always with us. If you're wondering what
he has next for you, check out this
playlist. Tap to start watching.