Biblical love, agape, is a decision
regardless of an emotion. So love is the
decision to compassionately,
righteously, and responsibly seek the
well-being of another. When God sees the
compassion, he translates that to
passion so that his passion can refer to
your compassion so that his love can
enter your love so that you can get more
of him.
The concept of God's love. John chapter
13
puts it this way.
Verse 31 says, "Now is the son of man
glorified and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will
also be glorified in himself
and will glorify him immediately." Okay,
you got that? God is glorified in him.
And when I get glorified in him, I'm
glorifying me. When I glorify me, he
gets glorified. And when he gets
glorified, I'm more glorified.
So, I'm going to fix this thing so that
he gets more glory when this thing is
over. And then he going to give me more
glory when this thing is over because he
got more glory when this thing is over.
So, what I'm trying to tell you is that
you're caught up in something bigger. In
verse 11, 1 John 4, if we so loved, if
God so loved us, we also ought to love
one another. Now watch this.
If you hang out in a flower shop, you're
going to start smelling like flowers.
You hang out in a flower shop, you going
that that smell going to rub off on you.
If you're hanging out in a perfume shop
or area of a store with perfume and
cologne,
you're gonna start smelling like cologne
because that's where you hanging out. In
other words,
your environment affects how you look or
smell.
[Music]
God says, watch this. I am caught up in
a love fest and I am love.
If you are not loving,
it's cuz you ain't hanging out in my
shop. You in somebody else's shop.
Cuz I am love. That's my store. My store
is called love.
If you are hanging out in that store,
love is rubbing off on you. So if you
are a loveless Christian, you shopping
at the wrong store. Amen. Let me put it
another way.
God will determine
how much he deals with you
by how much you deal with others.
Please notice the words here. This is
serious business.
He says in verse eight, "The one who
doesn't love doesn't know me." He says
in verse 12, "God, if if we love one
another, God abides in us." and his love
is perfected in us. He says in verse 16,
if the one who abides in love abides in
God and God abides in him, he says in
verse 20, the one who does not love his
brother whom he has seen cannot love God
whom he has not seen. So he says, forget
about it.
You cannot have an intimate experience
with me if others can't have an intimate
experience with you.
If you do not know how to love or refuse
to love, you won't feel my love.
He restricts the experience of himself
to believers who are functioning
in love as a lifestyle.
Okay, you're not getting this.
God is love. That's who he is. So, he
only hangs out with love. So, since he
is love and he only hangs out with love,
if that's not how you roll, he can't
hang out with you
cuz he would then be hanging out with
something that's not like him.
that you who who you are and who I am
even though you're my child because he's
talking to Christians. That's why it
says one another. He's he's not talking
about the world right here. He's talking
about love within the family of God.
That's why if the devil can make you
selfish, the devil can make you hateful.
The devil can make you mean and honory
and nasty and unforgiving. If he can put
all of that stuff in you, he knows God
going to leave you alone cuz you not
hanging out where he's hanging out.
He only hangs out with that which is
consistent with who he is. And he's
already told you who he is. He is love.
The word abide means to hang out. He
says if you're not abiding in love,
you're not hanging out with me. So the
more you love, the more you're in his
hangout. The more you love, the more
you're in the environment that he's
comfortable with. And so if it's only
about me, myself, and I, if it's only
about being blessed and not being a
blessing, that's why every time God
talks about being blessed, he wants to
know how you going to be a blessing. Or
is it only about you? Cuz if it's only
about you, you not with me. Cuz I don't
make it only about me. I make it about
my baby boy. And my baby boy makes it
back about me. So if you want to hang
out with us, you got to roll like we
roll.
And so one of the reasons that many
Christians aren't experiencing God is
because they are loveless saints. They
don't ask the question, how can I love
today? Who can I love today in the
family of God? What can I do today? You
can't love everybody, but you can love
somebody. And that means what does it
mean to love them? To love means is the
decision. It is decision. Let me state
that again. It is. Let me clarify
something because we we use these words
wrongly. We confuse love and like.
We confuse that. So, let's let's get
this. Let me explain this. Okay.
Like is a feeling. I like you. I don't
like him. Don't say I love chocolate
cake. You like chocolate cake. That's
how you feel about it. You like the
taste. You like So, you like it. That's
okay because there's some things you
don't like. Biblical love. agape is a
decision
regardless of an emotion.
An emotion, you may love something you
like, but you can also love stuff you
don't like. In other words, you don't
feel good about it, but you made a
decision regarding it. Okay? You made a
decision to eat vegetables. You may not
like it, but you love healthy food and
nutrition. Because you love that, you
choose and decide to eat what you don't
like. So love is the decision to
compassionately,
righteously, and responsibly seek the
well-being of another. God does that
with his son. To love God means to
passionately seek his glory. So the more
glory of God you seek, the more you're
loving God. And the more compassion to
others you give, the more you're loving
people. When God sees the compassion, he
translates that to passion so that his
passion can refer to your compassion so
that his love can enter your love so
that you can get more of him.
Look at this.
Look what he says. He he says in chapter
3 of first John
that if you love
he says that we ought to love little
children verse 18 let us love not just
in word and tongue but in deed and true.
Then he comes and he says
and whatever verse 22 we ask from him
because we keep his commandments which
involves love do the things that are
pleasing to him. Guess what he says? The
way to get your prayer there answered is
to start loving.
Um, you can go to church till you blue
in the face.
If he doesn't see love, forget your
prayer meeting.
You can you can sing songs till you blue
in the face. If he doesn't see love, he
says, "Forget your prayers." Okay? Cuz
you're talking to me different than who
I am. I am love. When I see you love, I
I that that gets my mojo working because
that's what I'm doing all the time, 24
hours a day. So when I see you plugged
into who I am, I say, "Oh, he being like
me." If you don't think that's what he's
saying, all you got to do is read verse
17. But this love is perfected within us
so that we may have confidence in the
day of judgment. Because as he is, so
also are we in the world. How is he?
Love. What are you doing in the world?
Being loving. He says when he sees you
being a loving Christian as a way of
life, he says you're being just like him
in this world as he is in that world.
And when he sees that, you have gotten
his undivided attention.
The reason why more Christians aren't
hearing from God, more churches aren't
seeing the transformation of the spirit
is they they are often loveless places
no matter how good the preaching is.
You can't preach your way into this. You
can't sing your way into this. You can't
shout your way into this. You can't wave
your hand in the air like you just don't
care enough in this. This will only
happen when God sees us individually and
corporately. The number one thing that
should be said about you and should be
said about our church should not be the
preaching, the preacher, the sermon, the
choir, the singing, the gifts. The one
thing that should override everything
else is, wow, look at how they love one
another. Jesus said in John 13, "By this
shall all men know that you're my
disciples." Not by the preaching, not by
the singing, but by the loving. Unless
there is a love fest in this house, we
will not see miracles from heaven.
Unless there's a love fest in your
house, you will not see miracles from
heaven.
You can look the part but have no life.
You can look the part. You can carry the
Bible, use the Christian words, but the
life that is bred by love. If that is
missing,
if that is missing, it's like the
prodigal son.
The prodigal son. And remember, God
demonstrated his love to us when we
didn't deserve it.
Not when it's easy to love folk that you
think deserve it. But while we were yet
sinners, Christ died when we didn't
deserve it. Okay. The prodigal son was
wild. He had wiled out and he now coming
back home to papa. Come back home to
dad. He said, "I have sinned." Daddy
said, "Okay, now you gotten right with
me. Now you confessed your sins. Now you
now you're doing right. We going to
throw a party."
But then there was the older brother.
The older brother went to Papa and said,
"What you doing? What you doing? You
throwing a party for him?" meeting and
going out here and act a fool and you
throwing a party for him. That ain't
right.
You throwing a party for him and I'm
I've been here with you all the time.
What you doing, daddy?
Father looked at the older brother and
said, "This is your brother who was
lost, who has been found and he came
home,
so I got to throw a party for him cuz I
don't know about you, but I'm glad he's
home." Amen. What's interesting about
Luke 15 and the prodigal son is the
story ends right there. You never know
what the older brother does. The point
being he got to decide now whether he
going to hang out with daddy or not. Cuz
daddy is going to hang out with the
brother that's come home. But see, a lot
of older Christians
don't want to hang out with folk who've
been forgiven, who've been redeemed,
don't want to hang out with compassion
for those whose lives have been broken
and beaten. When you see somebody walk
through this door and life has not been
good to them, like they've been tow up
from the floor up. You see somebody walk
through this door and their clothes are
raggedy and maybe they're ashamed by
their history, their background, their
lifestyle, but they walk through because
they want to hear a word from the living
God.
Don't think you better.
Uh-uh. Cuz you were no better when Jesus
died for you. In fact, if it wasn't for
Jesus, you would have been walking
through the door looking like that
because some of us have been dug out of
some real low pits. Maybe it wasn't
that, but it was something else.
You take the stand. You never dumb down
the word of God. But what you do is love
people with a standard.
You've left people with a standard who
are willing to adjust to that standard.
And when you go to either one of those
streams, see, when you love without
truth, when you love without truth, then
that becomes emotional sentimentalism.
But when you have truth without love,
then you have cold orthodoxy.
The idea is to speak the truth with love
so that folk know we care. But I got to
tell you what God says. I'm not going to
change what God says, but I'mma love you
while I tell it to you.
It is the absence of love that has kept
God's church separated and segregated.
It's the absence of love that's made
11:00 on Sunday morning the most
segregated hour in America. It is the
absence of love that's got black
Christians against white Christians
against Hispanic Christians. And it was
the absence of love that created the
civil war. Because if the church was the
church, you wouldn't have had a civil
war because they would have stood up for
the truth of God.
But because people either want to love
without truth or have truth without
love. They do not live based on a
biblical standard. And it's time for
Christians to stand up for the truth and
not for the culture.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]